
Manamon 2 Walkthrough Guide
Created by tunmi13, with Post-Game content written in collaboration with Kalahami
Format: Plain Text
Rev 02/15/25

*Starting Notes:
This guide was made to assist those who are struggling or who are just beginning with Manamon 2. As such, not every manamon and/or piece of equipment are discussed in heavy detail, and not all items along the way (especially ones that are most likely hidden) are documented. This is not meant to fill a Manapedia (explained later) or learn about every piece of equipment. This is to help people get through the game.
It is also noted that this guide is mostly biased, and if applicable, is based off the knowledge and opinions of me (Tunmi). This means that any opinions on certain aspects should be taken with a grain of salt.
This guide contains minimal use of language, however it is good to note that it is still present, and that some of this language is in the actual game itself.
This guide may also contain jokes that might trigger some individuals. These jokes have been limited as best as possible, so they are not frequent. However, it is good to provide a warning beforehand. Therefore, I am not responsible.
Any key bindings that require modifier keys will be represented as MODIFIER plus KEY. For example, Control plus F.

*Navigation:
In this guide, you are able to use the following symbols to navigate between different parts for a more concise experience. This excludes the top and bottom section, which are simply navigated by using the * (asterisk) symbol.
To achieve the expected result, these symbols are typed in a search bar of a text editor, and then utilizing the Find again feature. For Notepad users, this would be Control plus F to perform a search, and then pressing F3 to find the next match, and Shift plus F3 to find the previous match.
The symbols are as follows.
* (asterisk): Navigates by major sections in the guide (as explained above).
_ (underline): Navigates by areas, such as maps, scenes, etc.
@ (at symbol): Navigates by game battles.
@@ (two at symbols): Navigates by major battles in the game, such as boss battles, stadium battles, etc.
# (number sign): Navigates by manamon descriptions, such as what type they are, their skills, etc. Again, not every manamon is covered.
$ (dollar sign): Navigates by equipment explanations, such as equipment that benefits your manamon or just general enhancements. Once again, not all equipment is covered.
% (percent symbol): Uncategorized details or explanations. This will be quite rare.

With all of that being said, let us begin.

*So, What Exactly is Manamon?
Well, to begin, there are two versions of Manamon. This guide specifically talks about Manamon 2, which is a sequel to Manamon 1. However, there are no huge spoilers if you end up playing Manamon 2 before Manamon 1. There are occasional references, but overall, they do not affect gameplay.
Here is the description of Manamon 2, directly taken from VG Storm. It also contains extra information about the game that is important.
Start of Description
VGStorm would like to welcome you once again to the world of Manamon!
Manamon 2, like its predecessor, is a turnbased roleplaying game in which you capture various feral monsters you find around the world and use them to help you complete the brand new storyline.
It features a new online system which will allow you to trade and battle your friends to determine which of you is the stronger Manamon Tamer, all without messing with your router's firewall or sharing your IP address!
Storyline

In the world of Manamon, children between the ages of 10 and 14 embark on a journey to challenge the 7 stadium leaders in their country. Once those stadium keys are collected, the challenger may proceed to challenge the Master's Stadium with the goal of becoming the Manamon Master.
Though most start their journey right away at age 10, you were regretably unable to start your journey, but now, some years later, it is finally time!
You will travel across the vast drought ravaged country of Kiarre, collecting the 7 stadium keys in order to become the master!
But wait! Who is this strange man calling himself Eshcon? Could he be the one to save Kiarre from its years long drought?
What are these strange creatures called Hyper forms?
As you travel, you will meet many new and interesting characters and quickly find yourself in the middle of a saga that goes far beyond merely collecting stadium keys.
Manamon 2's storyline is not exactly a sequel storyline, though it does contain sequel elements. You can play Manamon and Manamon 2 in any order, though, with each shedding light on the other. Manamon 2 takes place around 3 years after the original game. Any relevant events from the first Manamon game are explained as if you are unfamiliar with them.
Features
• 149 new Manamon creatures, for a total of 307 Manamon.
• About 400 attacks these manamon can learn.
• A brand new country with tons of all new areas to explore.
• The complex turn based battle system from Manamon 1 makes a return.
• A unique system of straight forward navigation which was first introduced in the game Paladin of the Sky.
• Over 140 pieces of equipment you can give your Manamon to make them stronger.
• Over 100 different special abilities, and every single manamon has one creating even more unpredictable and diverse battles.
• Creative sound design making all of the cities, caves, and battles come alive.
• An online system which will allow you to battle and trade with your friends without needing to exchange IP addresses or forward ports!
• An online battle recorder which allows you to relive noteworthy battles.
• A few postgame surprises, including the ability to rebattle all the stadium leaders.
• Self voicing using SAPI 5 compatible voices.
• An improved sapi mode that makes sluggish voices much more usable.
• Though not recommended, players requiring NVDA support can enable it.
• Slight changes to the type effectiveness chart and to some Manamon 1 attacks for greater balance.
• After completing the game, you can bring over your Manamon 1 friends to your Manamon 2 game!
• And much, much more for you to discover!
Demo Limitations
Manamon 2 is shareware, and can be purchased for $39.95 Here.
The game does, however, offer an expansive demo mode that will allow you to get a feel for the game. You will be able to reach the third stadium for free.
The game will not allow you to use any of the online features, however, until you've purchased the full version. You are also unable to use the Pocket Copter item to visit previous areas in the game.
Apart from these limitations, the game's entire feature set up to the third stadium is available.
End of Description
As the guide progresses, items mentioned above, such as the "pocket copter" will be discussed in further detail. This also includes features such as online capabilities as they present themselves within the game.

*Obtaining Manamon 2
Manamon 2 can be downloaded from the developer's website, VG Storm. Here is the link below.
http://www.vgstorm.com/manamon2/manamon2_installer.exe
In order to install Manamon 2, you must have administrator privileges. If User Account Control appears, simply press ALT plus Y to continue.
please note that Windows may flag this game as a virus or may believe that it is malware. To bypass this, you must access your antivirus settings and tell it otherwise. Tutorials as to how this may be done are available online.

*Launching Manamon
This part of the guide assumes you have chosen to create a desktop shortcut when installing the game. With that being said, Manamon 2 can be found on the desktop by pressing M to locate it, and then pressing Enter to launch it.
When the game launches, you will get the VG Storm logo. To skip this logo, you can press Enter.
After pressing Enter, Manamon 2 must load its data for the game to work. While it is loading, you will hear the game's opening trailer. You will hear a voice saying "Manamon is loading, please wait."
Once loaded, you are able to then press Enter to continue as instructed. However, you are free to listen to the opening trailer if you wish.

*General Menu Key Bindings
In most menus, using the Up and Down arrow keys will move you through the list of options presented to you. You are then able to press Enter, Space, or C, to select the option that was last spoken. Using the Home and End keys will jump to the top or bottom of the menu respectively.
Whenever you want to go back, for example, you are in a sub menu, you can use X, or the Escape key.
Other menus that differ in terms of key bindings will be explained later.

*Main Menu
In the main menu, you are presented with the following options.
The first option you will encounter if you have played before, is Load Game. Immediately spoken after Load Game, you will also hear your total play time, current location, and when your adventure began.
The second option, or first option if you have never played before, is New Game. This will start a new game of Manamon 2.
Below New Game, is Options. This contains all global settings of Manamon 2. These settings are able to be changed in-game as well.
Below Options is Learn game sounds. This menu allows you to hear all the sound cues in the game. In this menu, simply arrow through the list of sounds, and to hear the sound of the spoken item, press Enter on it.
After Learn Game Sounds, is the Tutorial option. This will cover the basics of Manamon 2, such as how to navigate and how to engage in battles.
Below the Tutorial, is Read change log for version (insert version number here) and earlier. This option lets you view the change log for the current version, and prior versions of the game. You will notice that the version number was redacted. This was due to the fact that the current version number will be displayed in its place. At the time of this guide, the latest version of Manamon 2 is 1.3.6.
Below the change log option, is Register Manamon. This allows you to input a purchased license. It will ask you for your name and key, which you can then unlock Manamon 2 to its fullest potential.
NOTE: To obtain a license, see above in the Obtaining Manamon section.
The final option in the menu is Exit. This will completely close the game.
If you press X or Escape, you will be returned to the opening trailer screen. This is why selecting Exit is the ideal option, since it will close the game entirely.
You are also able to press ALT plus F4 to achieve the same result, however note that this is a bad idea if you have not saved your game (explained further on in this guide).
With all of that out of the way, lets explain the options.

*Options Menu
Once again, to learn how to navigate the menus, read the little segmint above.
The option's menu contains the following
Text to Speech Settings: Allows you to change the spoken voice that is used by manamon 2, if using SAPI. You can change the rate, pitch and speed in this menu using the prompts provided.
Allow Manamon substitution when a tamer Manamon is defeated: The way this option works, is that once your manamon kills the other tamer's manamon, you get a yes or no prompt asking if you would like to change your participating manamon before they bring out their next one. This is helpful, say, if you are trying to see which manamon in your current party is effective against the manamon that is about to be released.
Play attack sound effects: Every attack in Manamon has a sound effect that plays before the attack officially lands. Turning this option off will disable these sounds. This is useful for lengthy attack sounds, as the sounds are not able to be skipped.
Switch to classic wall tones: Manamon uses a set of newer wall tones that VG Storm designed, however some may prefer to use the original wall tones they used to use if you have ever played their old games. This will switch between the classic ones and the newer ones.
Storyline text auto-scrolls: This option, if toggled on, will automatically scroll the story for you without requiring the use of the Enter key. NOTE: This only works if you are using Manamon 2 with SAPI, and not a screen reader.
Automatically check for updates when Manamon starts: This option is self explanatory.
Check for updates now: This option checks for updates manually.
Switch to screen reader or SAPI5: This option switches between the usage of a screen reader or SAPI5. If attempting to switch to using a screen reader, several prompts will appear, and you can keep pressing Enter through them until you reach the yes or no prompt. Alternatively, hit Control S to jump to the prompt instantly, and then select Yes or No.
Disable or Enable Enhanced SAPI: This option is an attempt to speed up SAPI5 for voices which have latency, or act sluggish. Having this on may improve your SAPI5 experience.
Add or Change associated email address: As of Manamon 2, you are required to have an e-mail address. This must be the address you purchased your key with, and this will allow you to access the game's online features.
Cancel: Backs out of the options menu and goes back to the prior menu.

*End of Top Section
Well, that's most of the game in terms of UI! A lot has been covered, so we'll wrap things up with a summary.
1. A very comprehensive description of Manamon 2 coming directly from VG Storm's website.
2. Obtaining the Manamon 2 installer and launching the game for the first time.
3. Going into detail about the various menu options and their functions.
And without further due, let's begin!

_Tutorial Countryside
This map is accessed by selecting the Tutorial option from the main menu.
This will provide you with an overview of how Manamon is played, and how to navigate.
Manamon 2 contains dialogs, which can be navigated by using Enter, Space, C, X, or Escape. In fact, the tutorial has quite a lot of them. Pressing T will repeat the current dialog, and you can copy its text by pressing Z.
If you ever wish to skip a dialog after seeing it several times in the game, pressing Control plus S will skip it, provided that there is not another set of dialogs that follows.
The tutorial will ask you to walk about the area, so we might as well take this opportunity to talk about how moving will be explained.
Throughout this guide, there will be compass directions used to better understand where things are.
You can only move left, right, backward, and forward, however these directions will still assist.
Here are their assignments with their respective arrow keys.
North equals Up
West equals Left
East equals Right
South equals Down
These other 4 are rarely used in said format, but rather told separately. In the case where they are used though, they have been provided below.
Southwest equals Left and then Down, or Down and then Left
Southeast equals Right and then Down, or Down and then Right
Northwest equals Left and then Up, or Up and then Left
Northeast equals Right and then Up, or Up and then Right
An example.
Original:
Hug the eastern wall, and then take the first gap east.
Translation:
Stick to the right wall, and then take the gap to the right.
Alright, do what the tutorial says, take a nice stroll around the area!
The best way to get the next event to trigger is by going north, towards the northern wall.
The next few dialogs will explain how the wall tones work.
If you wish, you can walk about the area before doing what the tutorial says to grasp which wall tones are for which wall.
Then, find the gap in the northern wall, and continue north.
Ignore the empty space around you, and hug the northern wall. Take it west, and there will be another gap for you to walk through.
Take the gap north, then hug the next northern wall and take it east.
The next few dialogs talk about how sometimes it is difficult to discern where a gap in the wall is due to a tamer being in the general path of it. Attempts to go around that person may leave you wondering where the gap is.
Head towards the northern wall. Hug it and take it west.
A gap will open up to the north, walk through it, and you will start hearing a pinging sound nearby. This is a tamer.
Tamers usually take up one square, or tile, of space. You will not be able to walk on top of them, and that restriction also applies to other objects in the game.
Continue towards the northern wall. Once you reach it, take it west.
You will eventually notice that you will run straight into the poor thing with an arcade-like thump.
Step one tile backward to go around the tamer, and then continue a bit west. A gap will open up right to their left in the northern wall. Head north through it.
Once the walls open up on either side, head towards the eastern wall. The tamer that you would encounter before the gap to the east is actually one tile in front of the gap. You can slip right past them.
Once through the eastern gap, the north will be open. Head north to the next wa... oh wait a second!
Time to learn battling!

@Tutorial Battle
With every battle in the game, the opponents will be displayed immediately after the battle name. If there are any additional comments they will also be left immediately below the opponents list. A blank line will signify the end of the battle.
Cacone is level 3
The Manamon you will be battling is a Cacone, and you will be using a Frolop.
There is quite a lot that this tutorial does not cover about the battle screen, besides the overview where your opponents are able to be viewed before you release your own manamon.
With that being said, all the keys will be listed here. Keep in mind some of the keyboard shortcuts will also have their respective options in the battle menu.
Q: This will check what your current manamon has equipped. This Frolop is just a Frolop, so nothing really special there.
W: This is your substitute key. Pressing this key will allow you to substitute your current manamon for a new one if you wish. You only have this lonely Frolop though, so you won't be needing that. You can also use the Switch manamon option in the menu.
E: This checks your manamon's magic defense. Magic attack and magic defense are usually used with energy-based or power-based attacks. If its magic defense is too low, it will suffer more damage from magic attacks. If it is high, it will suffer less damage from magic attacks.
T: This checks your manamon's magic attack. Magic attack and magic defense are usually used with energy-based or power-based attacks. If its magic attack is too low, it will inflict less magic attack damage. If it is high, the power of its magic attacks will be boosted.
U: This checks any status effects that your manamon may have. Here are the most common ones, although not all of them are listed.
Poisoned: Every turn, your manamon loses some health due to being poisoned.
Scorched: Every turn, your manamon loses some health due to being scorched, or in other words, on fire.
Confused: Your manamon is confused, and if you tell it to use an attack, it may accidentally attack itself, or it will succeed. Keep in mind that the attack you choose when your manamon is confused will not land on your manamon, it will simply just hurt itself.
Paralyzed: Your manamon is unable to move. Sometimes attacks may work, while other times your manamon will be unable to move for that turn.
Sleep: Your manamon is asleep, and thus cannot use any attacks even if you tell it to attack, until it wakes up.
Bizzarre: You are unable to control the attack your manamon uses, and it will choose a random move it has for that turn.
Cursed: This will inflict damage upon your manamon just as if it was scorched or poisoned, except it will take a lot more health.
I: Checks if the current manamon is holding anything.
O: Tells you if the manamon you are using has been captured by you in the past.
P: Tells you how many training points your manamon has (discussed later).
S: This checks your manamon's strength. Strength and defense are usually used with physical attacks, such as punches and kicks. If its strength is too low, it will inflict less damage. If it is high, the power of its physical attacks will be boosted.
D: This checks your manamon's defense. Strength and defense are usually used with physical attacks, such as punches and kicks. If its defense is too low, it will take more physical attack damage. If it is high, your manamon will be more resistant to physical attacks.
F: This checks your manamon's speed. The higher its speed, the more easier it will be to switch it in and attack first.
G: Checks the gender of your manamon.
H: Checks the hit points of your manamon. If this reaches 0, your manamon will be unable to fight.
K: Checks the last move that your manamon used.
L: Checks the level of your manamon. Combining with Shift will tell you how much experience is required to make it advance to the next level.
V: Brings up an overview menu of the opponents on the field, also available by selecting View enemy information. Some of the keys listed will work on the opponent, but not all of them. Keep in mind checking the health of the opponent's manamon will be displayed as a percentage.
N: Gives you a physical description of the manamon you have. In this case, this is a bunny.
M: Announces the name of the current manamon. Combining with Control will spell it out. Combining with Shift will tell you how its name is properly pronounced.
And there you have it, all the keyboard shortcuts in the battle menu.
Enough procrastinating, let's attack this thing!
The first, most important option in this menu, is Attack. Pressing Enter on it will bring up a menu listing all the moves the manamon has available. Manamon can only have a maximum of 5 moves. This only has 3 for right now, but as you level up your manamon they will learn more powerful moves.
The name of the move is announced first, followed by the type, and then followed by whether it is a physical or magic attack. It will then be followed by the effect points and the remaining UP (usage points). These are explained below with their associated keys.
Pressing A on a move will display its accuracy, meaning how much it has a chance of hitting the other manamon.
S will tell you if it is a physical attack, or a magic attack.
D will tell you how many effect points it has. The higher the effect points the more damage inflicted.
R will tell you how much of a chance (in percentage) it has at doing critical damage. Critical damage is where a move that you use ends up impacting a manamon way harder than it usually does.
T will tell you what type of attack it is. There are 20 types. Flame, water, plant, electric, magic, dragon, air, insect, ghost, undead, shadow, ice, holy, standard, earth, poison, sound, fighting, stone, and steel.
To learn about which type is effective, ineffective or immune to certain attacks, consult the type effectiveness manual included with the game. You can search for manamon2 type in the search bar by pressing Windows, and the type effectiveness manual will appear.
U tells you how many usage points are left. Manamon can only use a move so many times before they cannot use it anymore. Make sure you are conserving your usage points, especially for really powerful moves which have way less usage points than basic moves.
N will give you a physical description of the move, as well as what it does.
Alright! Let's use a move, shall we?
Claw swipe and quick blade are the only attacks that are inflicted on the target, so you can choose either one.
You may notice that Cacone will use thicken a lot. Thicken is a move which boosts a manamon's defense by one stage.
Stages can be anywhere from -5 to 5, with 0 being normal. For example, you really do not want your defense at a stage of -5. That's going to really hurt!
Now, take down this Cacone.
When it is defeated, you will hear its defeat sound.
If this were a tamer, they might wish to bring out yet another manamon. But since this is a tutorial, you're finished!
Go through the last few dialogs, and you'll be placed in the opening trailer screen. Press Enter to skip.
And that's the end of the tutorial!

Ready to get started with the real game?
Cool!
Let's begin!
Select New game, and off we go.

_Unavailable
You will know what this map is later.
Go through these dialogs. Don't worry, you are not in any trouble. Like I said, this is a foreshadowing.
I'm honestly not sure if Aaron intended you to be able to walk around here for a bit, but it's possible, so feel free to screw around when there are no dialogs that appear.
In fact, pressing R does actually show unavailable as the location name, so there you go.
To add more realism to the story, there are pauses included, hence why I made that comment.

_Alozza's Research Facility
To start off, Alozza will introduce herself, and then ask for your gender. You can choose boy or girl when the prompt appears.
After that, Alozza will ask you for your name. A virtual text box will appear. Type in your name, and hit Enter.
To confirm that your name was typed correctly, you will need to confirm with a yes or no prompt that the name you typed is the name you want.
Using the Up and Down arrows, you can pick Yes or No. After selecting Yes, the game will officially start.
Now you will have a very interesting scene with your mother, and then Alozza will take out three nets.
The one to the way left is Lavrog.

#Lavrog
Type: Flame
This frog, to my knowledge, is actually not that bad. However, it starts out pretty slow in terms of moves. From my experience using it, it doesn't really get good moves as early as its fellow comrades. That is not saying this is a bad starting manamon, just be aware that it won't be a very helpful flame type for some time.
However, fear not, for it gets some pretty good flame moves later on. It has two transformations, one around the late teens into Ribignis and another in the early 30s.

The next one is Kiduddle

#Kiduddle
Type: Water
This little goat is actually not all that bad, except it takes a while for it to really get going. It transforms into Gowater, gaining holy type in the process, and then finally Caberain. Even then, its moves are quite limited, and the damage it does is quite questionable for a water type, at least when I used it. It does get some pretty deadly moves, but that's way later in the game.

And finally, the one to the right is Grekko.

#Grekko
Type: Plant
This is probably one of the most balanced starters I've worked with. It gets some pretty good moves later on, but like Kiduddle, it takes a while for it to really get going. It transforms into greniverb, and then Bamboustica. It also does gain Sound type.

As you read above, some of these starters do gain additional types later on.
I will leave it to you to figure out which one to pick.
So it turns out that whenever you pick a manamon, regardless of which one you pick, she will say it's just the one she would have chosen. So don't bother replaying just to see if you get an alternative response.
Your mom's here! Out with you!

_Lellapol Village
This village is not that big, or at least I do not think so. There are a few buildings here and there. But before we follow Crisselle's troublesome intents, let's explore a bit.
Hug the southern wall and head right until you reach grass. You'll be up against a building.
Keep it to your right, and head north until the way to the east opens up.
Hug the southern side of the building until the path to the south is clear.
Head south a ways, hugging the eastern side of the building. Continue south until the western path opens.
Now you are directly in front of the building. Find the door by moving west and east. When you think it is centered, head in by stepping north.

_Your House
Home, sweet home! It is your house!
You can walk around here if you wish, and interact with the objects.
In the northeastern corner is your mom's room. Heading inside you can speak to your mother.
Her phrases will change depending on how far you are in your journey, so feel free to come back and see what she says.
Speaking of which, there are beds which will allow you to healt your manamon if they are out of health, or have status effects. If you really want to sleep in your mother's bed, go on ahead. She's your mother, after all.
Or you could be a bad child and steal the item in the southeastern corner of the room. It's an herb. I'm sure she won't mind, after all you need to keep your manamon healthy.
Somewhere hidden next to the herb, if you hug the southern wall, is a rare jewel. Now this, is just straight up stealing! But hey, you'll get a lot of gold for it! You'll thank me later.
If you are feeling up for it, you can take the stairs in the main room of your house. They are sort of in the southeastern-ish corner, but you have to head north toward them.
If you head north and then a bit west, you will hear a sort of ticking sound. This is a chest. Technically it's sort of by your room, so is it really stealing?
I'm not really sure...
Well, opening it up gives you 50 gold, so maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Assume whatever you wish, but now you have it.
Once chests have been opened, their sound will change to signify its contents have been taken and it is open.
In the northwestern corner, immediately west is...
Your bedroom!
A more appropriate area to sleep, right? I mean, nothing wrong with sleeping in your mom's room, but if you are wanting to sleep alone, here you are. A nice bed in the middle-ish area of the space up against the south wall.
Also you have a TV. If you interact with it...
Hmm. For some reason you have the news on? I'm not really sure why, but hey, there it is.
There is a box of odds and ends to the left of the bed, sort of in the southwestern area.
I guess it's a perfect opportunity to teach you about box moving.
In later scenarios, you will be required to move boxes. Might as well practice with this.
You may want to save your game before doing this, in case you want to revert. To do so, press Escape or X, then find the Save game option and it will save your game.
Keep in mind if you already have a game in progress, it will ask you if you would like to overwrite it. If you are sure, hit Yes.
There are also other options in this menu that allow you to view your Party, your Inventory, and also adjust the game Options directly in the game itself.
Pressing X or Escape again will back out of this menu.
Okay. Now here goes!
Get behind the box so that it is directly to your north. Begin to push it north. Using Control Enter or Control C. Depending on what side you are on, the box will move in that direction. Think of it in real life. If you go forward and an object is in front of you, it will go forward. If you are to the left and move to the right, it will push it right. If something is behind you and you step back, it will move the object backward, and if you are to the right of an object and you go left, it will push it left.
With that being said, continue pushing the box north until it's up against the northern wall, and it cannot be pushed any further.
Now you want to get up against the northern wall to it's left side, and start pushing it to the right. Until...
Bang! There goes your TV!
Now if you still want that TV, by all means, reload your game. You can do this by hitting Shift plus F12.
For NVDA users with an addon such as Speech History/Explorer or Clip Copy, you will want to also include Control while holding down Shift, so it will bypass it. An alternative is pressing NVDA F2 which ignores any NVDA commands for the next command you perform, and then press Shift plus F12.
If you select load game from the menu, you will be placed where you last saved. In this case, you would be right next to the box, and your TV will once again exist.
Okay, enough hanging out in your house!
Head out the bedroom door to the east, then take the stairs to the south back down to the main room. To the south is the door, take the door and you'll be back in the village.

There is a building directly north of your house.
Head around your house to the east, then keep it on your left side until it opens up.
Head a bit to the west, then head north and head inside with the provided door.

_Davidson Residence
This belongs to an old lady who goes by Ms. Davidson. She has some things to say about not liking Thursdays and how significant it used to be, and some other phrases she says when you interact with her also throughout your journey.
Honestly, other people have said they have received random phrases each time you interact with her from the get go. I've continuously interacted with her, and no matter what I did, heading back outside, coming in, etc etc, her phrase did not change even once. Apparently they say it has to do with this one bug about... oh it's not that important. It digresses from the guide.
There's honestly nothing in here, so let's head out.

Alright, back in the village.
From the door, head east a ways until there is an opening to the north. Take it, keeping the residence to your left, and get up against the northern wall.
Head west along the wall to your north. A gap will open up in the wall, take it.
Head north and you'll find another building. Let's see what is in here.

_Crisselle's House
This house is pretty big. In one of the corners to the northeast is a clock. It displays your system time and date. There is no in-game time. It does go off every once and awhile, for example when it hits a time like 1:00.
Crisselle's father is also in the northern section, and he's proud to have a big and wide house. Well, it's definitely bigger than yours! I'm sure Criselle would make a remark like that.
There's nothing else special in here, so let's go.
Head to the southern wall, find the door, and out we go!

Okay, that's enough exploring for now. From Crisselle's, head to the eastern wall. Follow it until It opens up to the east, then head east.
It will become a northern wall, so continue following it east. There will be a gap in it, so take it.
Head north, and there will be a rumbling sound. This is an entrance. Head inside.

_Cave of Fates
Manamon Available: Redacted
Interesting cave, except those things moving around are, well... that will be discussed later. But you have the right idea.
But Crisselle being Crisselle, we're apparently going deper?
Damn. That sound was unexpected. You were the scared one, and now Crisselle is.
She's telling you to use your ears you dumbass! Oh wait that's for her to say.
It's a manamon, specifically a Picsor.

#Picsor
Type: Shadow
I've used this thing a few times during some of my journeys. It gets some pretty good shadow moves, and its standard attacks are relatively deadly. However, it's very frail, especially to fighting and insect attacks. Keeping in mind that fighting and insect are both super effective against shadow. It doesn't really start learning a lot of shadow moves until it's in its late teens or early 20s.
It eventually transforms into Wolfsyre, and then if you have the right item, Werewolfsyre. But more on transformation items later.

@Cave of Fates Battle
Picsor is level 3
You'll have to use your manamon to defeat it. It is not that strong, so you should be fine. Use your manamon's starting moves to take it down. Common moves are headbutt, pounce, claw swipe, that sort.
Picsor will mostly use pounce, so don't rely on attacks which decrease its stats too much. Just keep landing attacks on it.

You and Crisselle break into a little argument, and then Criselle says she's bored of the place. I'm sure she's probably just scared, and is refusing to admit it. Oh well, it's over.

Oh shit! It's Grandma Davidson! Ahem I mean Ms. Davidson. She's pretty cross about our adventure, too.
We're back in the village. Me being me, I was surprised that when Crisselle said she was going home, she doesn't actually reappear in her house. So that's interesting. Oh well, that's not important.
You are required to return to your house now. I think you know your way around here now, so we'll just jump right to the scene.

!Back at Your House
Busted! Quote, that old witch, end quote.
However, it seems that Alozza is quite satisfied with the fact that you battled, so that's a plus.
And with that, it's time to begin your adventure. Get ready, because this will not be easy.
Since Lavrog, Kiduddle or Grekko is no longer your homework assignment, you are given the option to nickname it. Feel free to give it a name, or just stick with the name it already has.
Alright, let's head to Elatia Path! No more sitting in your mom's car anymore, from hereon out, it's all on foot.

Act like you are going back to the cave, but this time, instead of taking the gap in the northern wall, continue following the wall east.
You will start to hear windchimes to the east. This signifies another map.
There is also another herb in the southeastern area, feel free to obtain it.
Now, let's go through.

_Elatia Path
Manamon Available: Frolop, Picsor, Rucroom, Doving, Centi

#Rucroom
Type: Plant
This thing, well, how do I say this...
It just, doesn't meet up to a plant type's standards. It is extremely weak, and even with all the moves it gets, it is quite a disappointing manamon. They are not strong at all, and it is really frail to everything a more advanced plant type would be able to withstand. This thing just, flops.
It transforms later on into Limptoroom, but even its transformation doesn't make it any better. I'd steer away from this mushroom-headed disgrace.

#Frolop
Type: Standard
I was going to cover this in the tutorial map, but figured it was not a good idea to cover it there, so I'll cover it here.
This thing, if trained correctly, is quite lethal. Its standard moves are really powerful, even with quick blade which it gets extremely early. If you are looking for a good standard type, this thing is a pretty solid one.
The only thing to watch out for is its defenses. It's not really good at holding up against attacks such as ones dealt by fighting type manamon. So just be careful with it.

#Doving
Type: Air
This air type manamon is actually pretty good. It learns a lot of lethal air moves pretty early, and is really good at packing a punch to manamon such as fighting or plant type.
Although it is a really good manamon, it's another one of those where its defenses are lacking. This can easily be fixed with training points, but just be careful with when you use it, similar to Frolop's case.
Eventually this transforms into Colovaird around level 21 I believe.

#Centi
Type: Insect
This is a decent insect type manamon which, from my past journeys, has quite a bunch of insect moves up its sleeve. It eventually transforms into Centiplex, which is a bit stronger.
I personally do not like Centiplex all that much, since I feel like it takes way more damage than it should. But it's definitely out there if you are looking for an insect type that is dedicated to being full of insect moves.

This map is pretty simple to navigate, but of course, I'll help. Feel fre to train your starting manamon here as well, as feral manamon do show up quite frequently.
Hug the northern wall, being sure to snag the item there. It's an antidote, used for curing the poison status effect.
When you reach the eastern one, follow it south. A gap will open up, take it east.
Make your way towards the wall to the north, then follow it to the east. Another gap will present itself, take it north.
Another item is in this area,. It's an herb. Perfect if you need to heal your manamon, as it can definitely get pounced and clawed at quite a lot in this area.
Assuming you went for the item, simply follow the western wall north. You don't have to be against it, just go north until you find the northern wall.
future maps will not be this simple, but go ahead and head east a ways and then head north through to the next map.
Note: Don't forget to open the chest south of the city. It contains a Treasure Chest Key.

_Elatia City
This city is quite simplistic. Heading north will bring you to the front of a building, head inside.

_Elatia's Mana Hotel
Most mana hotels will look relatively the same. Immediatley to your north will be a bed, to heal your manamon.
If your entire team is defeated in battle, you will return to the last place you healed. This means if you heal your manamon here, and they end up being defeated, for example, you will be returned to this hotel.
Northwest of the bed is what is known as a transportal.
The transportal allows you to store manamon. Think of it like a storage space for manamon you are not using.
You are allowed to have a maximum of 6 manamon in your party.
While we are here, let us discuss a bit about how parties work.
When you press Escape or X, and select Party, you will get a list of all the manamon in your party.
Most, if not all of the keyboard shortcuts mentioned in the tutorial are able to be used when moving through the list of manamon you have.
When you press Enter on a manamon, you will get a list of actions to do with the manamon.
Overview: This lets you view information about the manamon, such as the moves it has, its statistics, etc.
Under this menu, you can also find out about abilities. Some manamon have abilities which make them have advantages. For instance, perhaps it increases their attacks when their health is low, being immune to a certain type of attack, automatically doing something to a manamon when hit, etc.
Swap manamon: This lets you swap the position of another manamon in your party with this one. For instance, say I have a manamon that is first in the list, but the manamon you have selected is the second one. Selecting swap manamon and then selecting the manamon that is first will swap them, so that the manamon that was previously first will be second.
Train: As you level up your manamon, you will receive what are called training points. Training points allow you to increase your manamon's statistics to enhance their performance in battle.
In this menu, you can choose to automatically distribute the points evenly, or you are able to create a distribution plan based on a percentage that will let you distribute points to certain statistics, which will add up all the way to 100 percent. This means you'll have to do some math. For instance, I could create a plan where I put 75 percent of my points in health, and 25 points in my defense. Bad idea, but just an example.
Equipment: Throughout your adventure, you will find pieces of equipment you can give to your manamon. Some have advantages, such as stat boosts, giving your manamon an extra move, making you immune to specific status effects, etc.
Give item: This allows you to make your manamon hold an item of your choosing. Some manamon require an item to be held in order for them to transform, while others require you to use it on them. some items will give benefits to your manamon when held.
Cure: If your manamon is low on health, or has any status effects, you are able to cure them from this menu.
With that out of the way, be sure to heal your manamon (if necessary) and let's leave and find the research facility.

Head south a ways from the hotel, then a bit west. You should find some dirt, then head north towards a door.

_Alozza's Research Facility
You've been here before, you were just driven rather than walking on foot.
Anyways, just walk towards her and then press Enter.
She will ask you if you know about the stadium challenge. Be honest and choose whether you know or not, because I'm not explaining here. :D
After that, she will hand you three things.
Your taming license. Congratulations, you are now officially a tamer!
A manapedia. This is a little pocket computer with information about manamon you encounter or have caught. Think of it as Wikipedia, but instead it's not giving you all the information. You're encountering it on your own.
Mananets. You were not able to catch any manamon due to the lack of nets. With these mananets, you can catch 5 more to fill your party. She also gives you extras just in case one fails.
A few things before we head out.
If you head west a bit to avoid the first gap, north and then follow the east wall, a gap opens up. You will find an ex stadium leader, who is able to check out your manamon's stats and judge what needs training. This will be helpful if you want to create a distribution plan.
There are also stairs in the corner. If you head up and then north, there is a person who will give you rewards for filling up your manapedia. Come back every now and then to see if a reward is available. The more you catch and see, the better the reward.
In fact, the first reward you receive is an herb. It's the best thing you could ask for right now, trust me.
There is also a bookshelf here, which contains a book about training your manamon. Though I was nice enough to already give you the general details. Feel free to read it, however.
Alright, I believe we are finished here. If you did decide to do the stuff above, climb down the stairs, go west a bit, then head back south. Otherwise, head south of Alozza and out the door.

A few things we can do before we leave Elatia.
The marketplace is a bit east of the Mana Hotel. Head east a ways until you find the western wall of the marketplace. Follow it south, then when you are able to go east, do so, and head through the door.

_Elatia's Manamon Marketplace
The marketplace is useful for buying healing supplies, useful items, and equipment. Just like the hotel, usually the layout of each marketplace you come across will be relatively the same.
Head a bit west, and you will find the seller. A menu will pop up, in which you can select buy or sell. Select Buy.
As you go further on your journey, you will run into marketplaces that sell a lot more. For now, you can buy herbs, nets, healing items for status effects, and a flier.
You can press N to see what an item is for as well.
If you grabbed it, remember that rare jewel? Well, it's not useful for anything, so you can sell it.
Choose sell, then you will be put in your inventory.
Your inventory is organized into categories, which can be switched by pressing the Left and Right arrow keys. The categories are as follows.
Items: This is where all your general items go, such as your nets.
Status: This is where all your healing items will be.
Equipment: Self explanatory.
Other Items: These items are usually items that pertain to the game. That being said, they cannot be sold. Yes, taming license included.

Anyways, switch back to the Items category, and select the rare jewel. It will sell for 3500 gold.
See? Told you it would be useful.
Feel free to use this new obtained gold for whatever you wish. Buy more herbs, nets, whatever you think will be beneficial to you. And then, we're out!

So I thought I would point this out before we go. But heading right of the marketplace, you will find a manamon known as Artisoul. I will not go into details about it yet, but keep it in your mind.
On the way out, there is a house you can stop by. From the western side of the marketplace, find a gap in the northern wall and take it.
The house has a girl in it, who will give you a power potion. Power potions give your current participating manamon a strength boost by 2 stages (only works in battle). I personally do not find these potions very useful, but it is completely up to you.
Okay, let's go.
Go around the house, then head north. You will be stopped to verify that you have a taming license. Assuming you do, you'll be let through. Otherwise, go back to the research facility and get it.
Finally, head through the exit point, and off to the next map we go!

_Siccitas Road
Manamon Available: Doving, Frolop, Fennebel, Tadder, Cacone, Squirmunk, Centi

#Fennebel
Type: Sound
This manamon is quite a good sound type once you get it up and running. It eventually transforms into Shadina, and gains shadow type, so be careful because it starts taking damage to anything effective against shadow type manamon.
Its sound moves are relatively powerful, and the shadow moves it gets are quite impressive. If you are in search of a good sound type, add Fennebel to your list of considerations.

#Squirmunk
Type: Holy
This manamon is decent. I wouldn't call it good, but it's all right. It gets relatively the same moves that other holy types get, but in my opinion they seem a bit weak.
One thing that does make up for its weak moves though, is that it has an ability that will increase its attack by 1 stage each time an opponent's manamon is defeated, which could probably strengthen moves more. However do not rely on this too much.
It eventually transforms into Miterosier.

#Cacone
Type: Insect
This was another manamon in the tutorial that I thought it would be best to cover later in the guide.
Cacone is not terrible, however it takes quite a long time to get going. The moves it has at low levels is quite limited, and its not very useful in fights. However it does get some decent moves eventually with lots of grinding.
Eventually Cacone transforms into Bombusect which gains undead type, which is when it really starts showing its, lets say, decent potential. It gets some more moves which are certainly great for annoying opponents, especially its undead moves.
Certainly better than Cacone though, that's for sure.

#Tadder
Type: Water
This little tadpole is quite annoying, in a good way. It is one of those manamon where it is great when you use it, but annoying when used against you.
Eventually it transforms into Friggle, gaining the electric type, which means it also gets electric moves.
This is one of the manamon that evolve with an item. Eventually once it reaches Friggle, you can use a lightning element on it, which will transform it into Frorgerel.
The sad thing about this thing though, is it is mostly water. It does get a few electric moves, but otherwise, it's mostly a water user.
However, that does have its advantages. If you did not choose Kiduddle, this could be a replacement, if you wish.

Now that you have nets, you can start catching manamon you find. Here are a few tips to help you.
1. Decrease its health as much as you can. The higher its health is, the less chance it will be caught.
2. Once you have it's health between the range of 1 and 25 percent, 15 is probably the best, use the Inventory option in the battle menu. Scroll to the Items section, then select your net, in this case, a mananet. In the menu that pops up, select Use.
3. If all goes well, you will hear 4 tones, and then a click, meaning you caught it. Otherwise, it may simply escape the net and continue attacking you as a feral manamon. But thankfully, Alozza gave you extras, so use that to your advantage.

Alright, let's get going.
From Elatia city, if you hug the western wall and take it west, you will find a chest. It has a scorch ointment, used for healing the scorch status effect.
Now take the wall back east to start at where we entered, then head east.
Following the eastern wall, wait until it opens up, then take it east.
Since the wall will now be behind you, stay against it. When it opens up, head south.
Once you are south a few steps, head to the eastern wall. Continue south, and there will be a gap. Head through the gap east.
Your first tamer battle awaits you. They're walking around the area. Some tamers do this, while others stay in place. They'll spot you within 3 tiles of their location, so no need to interact with them.
This one is obsessed with a Frolop. Defeat it so he has something to complain about.

@Lad Allen
Frolop is level 4
Yes, your poor bunny. You'll get over it eventually, the mana hotel is like, right there.

Continue north past Allen to the northern wall. When you find it, head a few paces east, and a gap will open up. Head north through it.
And you'll immediately encounter another tamer who says that she used to come out to hear the sound of the brook gurgling.

@Lass Marin
Rucroom is level 2
Doving is level 3

Head past Marin to the northern wall. Follow it east, until it opens up, then head north.
You will hear the sound of an item. It is an encounter down.
An encounter down is a repelling spray which, when used, keeps feral Manamon from attacking for 150 steps. There are higher levels of encounter downs which will be much stronger, but for now, if you want to use this to reduce the amount of feral manamon, feel free.
Keep heading north, and you'll be stopped by a man. A physical description of him is given.
He wants to ask you what you see around you. Sand, duh. I mean, it's what you have been walking on for the past few steps.
He tells you about how this used to be a brook. No wonder Marin was sad about it.
You are allowed to respond in any way you would like. It doesn't affect the story at all, but you will have a list of options. He'll say something depending on what you choose, but the outcome is still the same; He wants to have a battle with you!

@Oghma
Yakshine is level 5
His Yakshine has a move called bite, which does do quite a bit of damage. I did end up beating him with a level 6 manamon though, so don't fret.
In addition, he'll heal all your manamon for you, so you don't have to go back to the hotel unless you really need to.

Once that's done, keep heading north until the western wall opens up, then head west. More tamers!
The first one had an interesting idea to rip papers out of a book to use as a fan. How interesting...

@Lass Peggy
Squirmunk is level 5
Centi is level 4
And she tore her fan. So much for cooling off...

Head a bit west from Peggy, and you will almost instantly be spotted by the next tamer, who is complaining about how her friend threw mud at her and got it in her dress, causing a Centi who was on her palm to go away. That sucks.
But wait, she has larger Centi apparently. And you must fight them! Oh well...

@Insect Collector Lara
Cacone is level 2
Cacone is level 4
Centi is level 3
Centi is level 3
Water quota is gone. Ouch. No dress washing then.

Head west past Lara, then when the northern path opens, take it.
Head north again until you reach the wall, then head west. The wall should open up again, so take it north.
When it is just open space, head west towards the banging sound. This is a gate.
Head through the gate, and congratulations! You've made it!

_Konduan City
This city's layout, in my opinion, is strange. Most of the buildings are sort of set behind walls, or in little alcoves, if you want to call it that.
When you enter, the metallic creaking sound to the south you hear is a sign. You can go over and view it if you wish, but it must be the city's slogan.
A bit southwest of the sign is the entrance to a building. This is the stadium. You can't go in yet, you still have to go to another building first. But figured I should point this out.
Follow the east side of the stadium north, then follow the northern wall west until a gap opens up.
When it is open space, there are two buildings side by side.
The one on the left is a hut. There's nothing in there, so do not bother.
The one you are possibly looking for is on the right.

_Konduan's Mana Hotel
Here is the mana hotel for Konduan.
Feel free to heal up, and if you wish, you can go talk to that tamer in the other room to the west, who talks about a Stadium Master named Andromeda Masterson, and how it is funny.
Keep that name in the back of your mind for later.
Anyways, heal up, do what you need to do, transport your Manamon in the transportal if need be, then let's head out.

Now that we are out, retrace your footsteps back so that you are sort of behind the stadium.
So there are two gaps in the northern wall. The one on the right leads to the hotel and the hut. However, there is one more gap next to the western wall that goes north. You want to head through that gap.
There is a kind person you can interact with who explains that if a manamon is the same type as a move you use, its attacks are way stronger. They use the manamon Frolop and Fennebel as an example. Since Frolop has claw swipe which is a standard move and it is standard type, it does more damage than if Fennebel used claw swipe, keeping in mind that Fennebel is a sound type.
If you didn't end up going that far, since that person is sort of behind the building, simply head towards the front of the building. Then head through the...
Shit. Someone is being rude, and blocking the door. And interacting with them isn't making him really happy.
He has something to say about you being a new tamer, then starts babbling about your age. What a jerk.
And apparently being a tamer is an issue, he has this notion it's ridiculous.
Sigh. Just take him out.

@Byron
Kiduddle, Lavrog, or Grekko is level 7
Depending on the starting manamon you chose, Byron will bring out the one that is effective against your starter.
If you chose Lavrog, he will choose Kiduddle.
If you chose Grekko, he will choose Lavrog.
If you chose Kiduddle, he will choose Grekko.
After complaining about your possible happiness, he just stomps off. What an idiot.

Feel free to go back to the hotel and heal up. Otherwise, now he's no longer in front of the door, so head on in.

_Kiarre Art Museum
From the door, head north, and then a little west. You will run into the ticket clerk, who questions if you would like to buy a ticket to explore the museum. Hit Yes.
It's 1000 gold, but wait! What was that noise?!
A smoke bomb? Oh my...
And there comes Oghma, tackling someone for trying to cast aside a painting.
You call out to him, and he asks for your assistance.
Now, the game will say that Oghma has joined up with you. From hereon out, any battle you participate in will also involve Oghma, meaning he will also bring out his own manamon on your side of the field to fight with you.
This will usually be a 2v2 situation, either when one thief brings out 2 manamon, or two thieves team up and bring out one of their manamon.
When this happens, when you want to make your manamon attack, you must select which manamon on the field you would like to attack. Usually this isn't the case, but since there are 2 manamon you have to fight, you get a menu asking you which one you would like to land blows on.
Oghma will also choose which manamon to attack.
Each time you finish a battle, Oghma will heal up your team.
If you ever need to go back to the city for supplies or just to do other things, Oghma will leave you to go do what you wish, and when you return, he will be waiting to pair up with you again.

@Thief Owen
Sansuran is level 7 and Zinbat is level 7
Hush. You're uglier.

Oghma says there are more thieves running around, so let's go find them.
North of the clerk are more thieves. Ones got something to say about you and Oghma's appearance, while the other is gushing about how the painting they are looking at will be worth a lot on the black market. Let's stop that dream.

@thieves Warren and Lillian
Warren's Zinbat is level 8 and Lillian's Ratsal is level 7
Lillian's Zinbat is level 7
Yeah, Lillian had one extra Manamon while Warren only had one. How ridiculous of him.
Also when was thieving ever meant to be easy?

I'm going to use a technique where we slowly go north while checking the doors as they approach. That being said, head west and go through the door.
These two thieves are trying to move a statue and, well, let's just say they're not doing a very good job at it. Before they have any more ideas of how to move it, let's take care of them.
Also frigglin' is apparently some sort of alternative curse word of some sort. :D

@thieves Dominico and Kelly
Dominico's Picsor is level 8 and Kelly's Picsor is level 8
Dominico's Fennebel is level 8 and Kelly's Rucroom is level 8
Kelly does offer to give you a third of the loot, but honestly, I don't see why they're being so nice if they're a thief.
But Dominico says that statues are not necessary, so off they go!

There's nothing else there, but feel free to check out the art. Then, head out the door.
Opposite that west door is another one, AKA to the east. Let's go in and see what these thieves are up to.
One is wondering if the bones of a skeleton are real, while the other says they are creepy. Well either way, they're up to something, so let's stop them!

@thieves Erin and Gale
Erin's Sansuran is level 8 and Gale's Zinbat is level 10
Erin's Picsor is level 8
Gale, bring an extra manamon next time.
Also they're running off like cowards too. Alrighty.

If you haven't checked, in the southeast corner from the statue they were looking at is a revive. A revive resurrects one of your manamon to 50 percent of their health.
We're done in this room. And no, they were idiots. The bones are fake. It's a museum for crying out loud.
Out the door we go. This place is mostly empty now, so head north.
We have one more thief to take care of, and he's up those stairs on the northern side, so head up.
Stop lying, you're holding paintings behind your back! Also Oghma, chill out. That was quite vicious.

@Thief Bartholomew
Fennebel is level 9 and Picsor is level 9
Cacone is level 10
No, you do not need those paintings. Be gone!

That's all the thieves. You and Oghma now go your separate ways, and you're on your own again.
Head down the stairs, then continue all the way south and out of the museum.

You may want to stop by the marketplace and get some items before you challenge the stadium
Retrace your steps back to the stadium entrance, then head to the southern wall and follow it west. Once it opens up, head south some more, sticking to the west wall for guidance.
The way to the west will open up. You can probably hear an exit to the south. That is the next map, but you can only continue through it if you have beat the stadium leader, which we will do in a second.
Ignore the exit and travel west. Use the northern wall for guidance. When it opens up, there will be space around you.
You want the building that is northwest from the one to the southeast. The one southeast of the marketplace is Oghma's house (remember it), so use that for guidance by going west of his house and heading northwest.

_Konduan's Manamon Marketplace
There are a few people in this marketplace. The one nearest to the door is the seller.
This seller sells the same thing as Elatia's, with two additional items, which are pieces of equipment.

$Bone Dagger
This dagger gives the manamon you equip it on a strength boost of 5. Watch out though. When you press T on the item before you consider buying it, you can see that it takes a way 3 magic attack.

Always make sure to check a piece of equipment's pros and cons before buying. Even when you pres N to view its description, sometimes its cons are hidden.
You can use S and D for strength and defense, E and T for magic defense and magic attack, R for critical rate, and F for speed, similar to the battle menu's keys, to check.

$Little Wand
This is one of the examples of the description not providing details about its pros and cons. Go ahead and press the keys mentioned above to find out.

Buy or sell whatever you wish, then you can head out.
Or, you can talk to that person in the northwest corner about how they keep telling a protester to leave, and how they have explained how bone daggers and little wands are really produced.
That protester happens to be in the southwestern portion of the marketplace.

Alright, it's time for your first stadium battle!
Go ahead and retrace your steps through that path east, the one that takes you between Oghma's and the marketplace, and the exit leading south out of the city. Then head north into the stadium building.

_Konduan Stadium
Type: Insect
This stadium is an insect type stadium. Every stadium has a leader with a type they specialize in.
This also means that every tamer you battle, assuming the stadium has tamers, will also use insect type manamon.
Alright, let's get going.
Head north from the door, through the gap, and you will have your first set of tamers to fight.
The first one loves insect types now, even though she used to think they were disgusting.

@Insect Collector Suzanna
Cacone is level 8
Well, there goes your Cacone.

Heading north of Suzanna, is the next tamer.
He needs a girlfriend, but they think his bugs are creepy. Sorry dude.

@Insect Collector Graham
Centi is level 8
Cacone is level 8
No, becoming an undead element tamer may actually make things worse. Try magic or standard, and perhaps things may turn out a bit differently. Holy might be pushing it.

Head east just slightly, and a gap will open up in the northern wall. Head through it.
Now is a good time to save. You are about to face off against the stadium leader himself!
I believe this dude is southern. He talks like one, so probably. Either that or he's a redneck. And look at his name!

@@Stadium Leader Skeeter
Centi is level 11
Daggeetle is level 14 with a Long Dagger equipped
Centi is pretty easy to get rid of, so if you have an air type like Doving or a flame type like Lavrog you should be okay.
Watch out for the Daggeetle, it's insect and holy type, meaning it does have some holy moves. It is also way higher in level, and it has a long dagger equipped, so that's something to be careful of. An air type or flame type will probably be your best bet.
And there you have it, your first stadium key, or also known as the pest key.
When you beat a stadium leader, they will give you a piece of equipment as well to help you out. In this case, you'll receive a hard shell, which cuts the damage of air type moves in half. It can only be equipped on insect manamon though, so just note that.

Alright, hopefully that was not too difficult! With your first stadium down, it's time to continue!
If you need to, go ahead and heal up your manamon at the mana hotel, grab items at the marketplace, and let's skedaddle.
Remember that little area south of the path to the marketplace and Oghma's house, and how I told you previously to ignore it? Well, we're going through it now, so here goes!

_Wudrest Valley
Manamon Available: None Yet
As soon as you take a few steps south, you will be stopped by a Tangerian representative. For context, Tangeria is the country from Manamon 1.
He will tell you that he was here to assist Kiarre in fixing their wireless network, and that he just wrapped things up. He's headed home from a peninsula we will be heading to in the future.
Now is the time where you may check out the wireless communications system at the mana hotels throughout Kiarre. Remember the people that would keep brushing you off at the hotel when you tried to talk to them, located in the northeastern section? Well, they will be glad to see you now.
You are also now able to access a new option in the menu containing your Party and Inventory, called Unknown Gifts. These are usually gifts handed out by VG Storm to aid you on your manamon journey.
In addition, you will receive a combat recorder. Part of the communications system is battling other people online. This combat recorder will allow you to rewatch matches that you have done online, assuming you save them.
Another thing you can now do at hotels is trade. Sometimes you may want to give a friend a manamon you do not want or would like to aid them, and vice versa.
I will let you guys figure this out, as the process is quite straightforward.
However, we can access Unknown Gifts right now.
Please note that you must have a working internet connection to access it. This also applies to battling and trading online.
You will be asked to save your game before proceeding. This is not optional, so click Yes to continue.
In the menu that appears, you can Check for a gift, or obtain more information. Select Check for a gift.
At the time of this writing, you will receive a manamon known as Drabao as your first gift.

#Drabao
Type: Dragon
Dragon types are probably the most rare type you can find. Drabao is no exception. Some even end up gaining either the Dragon type (meaning they are not even a dragon at first), or have the Dragon type by default and gain additional types. This happens to be one of those which starts out as a dragon, which gets Air and Flame.
The issue though, is that Drabao doesn't really start out all that great. I'm not saying he is bad, in fact later on he gets some really good moves. But at the beginning, his move set is just, quite disappointing. This is usually common with any dragon type you find. They really start showing their true colors when they evolve into their final forms, in which they have really good moves such as drago breaker or dragon fang.
Feel free to keep it around, but it's not something I would include in your party as of right now, unless you want to.
It evolves into Dragetull in the 30s, then Dragomier in the 50s.

After your gift is received, your connection will be severed, and you will return to the valley, assuming that is where you launched Unknown Gifts from. Otherwise you will be returned to where you were last.
Now here is the list of manamon available. The reason there were no manamon available immediately was because the representative would actually block you from continuing further into the valley, thus making it impossible to fight any manamon near the city. Now you can go deeper into the valley.

Manamon Available: Frolop, Vibrogen, Rucroom, Flarebra, Murkit, Picsor, Owlaw, Pebbledash 

#Vibrogen
Type: Sound and Poison
Vibrogen is another one of those manamon where it has good stats and good moves, but it is weak to several types and tends to go down pretty easily.
It does eventually evolve into Recobrah somewhere in the 20s.

#Flarebra
Type: Flame
If you did not choose Lavrog as your starting manamon, you may consider this as one of the replacements. It gets some really good moves pretty early, such as singe and megasinge, and then transforms into Zebabern around level 25 or so.
This manamon can stand up to quite a lot, though water is definitely something it will not tolerate, so keep it far away from that.
The nice thing about this guy is it has the ability Burning Heart, which means if it has less than a 4th of its health left, its flame moves are significantly boosted. Lavrog also has this ability.

#Owlaw
Type: Air and Sound
Irritating! This thing is just irritating! Don't worry, it's in a good way.
If you are a fan of messing with your opponents, this thing gets quite a lot of status type moves like magic lights and sing, which confuses other manamon or puts them to sleep. It has great attack, but again, defenses will definitely take a nice blow.
It has two transformations, one around the 20s into Owlex, and one later in the 40s into Fowliture.

#Murkat
Type: Shadow
This manamon hits pretty heavily in terms of shadow moves, and it is quite on the speedy side. Since it is purely shadow type, its shadow moves have a significant impact on opponents.
However, it is quite frail in terms of defenses, and tends to go down hard to lots of types, especially fighting. It also doesn't really start getting its shadow moves until the early teens, so you may not want to rely on it too much early on if you plan to use it.
It does evolve somewhere in the 20s into Evillion, and then a final transformation into Tigrath, where it starts falling a bit behind on shadow moves.

#Pebbledash
Type: Stone
This excited little thing gets quite a lot of good stone moves at early levels. Pebbledash is mostly about speed when it comes to its moves, which is why rev up is part of its set.
It eventually transforms into Bulderdash, and that's when it really shines.
Just be warned that it does take heavy hits from some attacks, so you may want to train its defenses.

Alright. With all that out of the way, forward!
Head south from Konduan's entrance, until you reach a wall. Then head slightly to the right.
Head over to that rock, and hit Enter.
It's a bird! It's a plane! Oh wait, no... It's actually something different.
It's a feral level 10 Turrubble!

#Turrubble
Type: Stone
This turtle is something. Its stone moves are extremely lethal. Just for context, I was using a level 10 manamon, and it was dealing 14 damage just using stone throw. It's not something to be trifled with.
This doesn't actually transform at all. The turtle remains a turtle. It does learn some really deadly moves though, and I believe it does learn an earth move or two.
The nice thing about it is it has the ability defensive, which basically makes special attacks that are very effective against it target its defense rather than its magic defense. So if you increase your defense, you should be okay.
Just be warned, you can't catch these easily. You're going to need to toss a few nets at it before you get it. I recommend meganets.

Heading south of that Turrubble, you will find a baby net. This net works best on manamon which have not transformed yet. For example, it will work way more efficiently on a Cacone instead of a Bombusect.
Head out of that gap, then follow the southern wall east. You'll find another rock... oh wait, look! It's another Turrubble!
Just for context, due to its structure, Turrubble will usually resemble a rock because it buries itself in the sand. You will sometimes find rocks that turn out to be a Turrubble throughout your journey. This valley just happens to contain 2 of them.
Anyways, defeat it, or capture it, your choice. This is the gap we actually want to go through, so you will need to do either one.
Now that the path is free, head east. Hug the southern wall, then when you reach the eastern one, take a few steps north.
The eastern wall will open up. Head east through it and prepare to face off against a tamer.
Oof, sprained your ankle on a Turrubble? I'm sorry.
No seriously, I genuinely am. They're big rocks, after all.

@Gentleman PJ
Murkit is level 11
Centi is level 11
Yes, you really should not fight with that injury. Put some ice on it.

Continue east along the wall to the north. It will open up, and then walk a bit north. You will find a tamer who wants to challenge the fact you have a key. Let's show her that she should take those words back.

@Lady Jenny
Frolop is level 13
Mhm, regret saying that now, don't you?

The path will narrow, but keep heading north through it.
Continue heading north. If you run into a wall, move slightly to the right or left, and you should be in front of a gap. Head north through it to the next tamer.
Which manamon do I think is the cutest? Not really sure.
Oh you're tied between Frolop and Fennebel? Okay then.

@Rich Kid Robby
Fennebel is level 11
Frolop is level 12
This kid does actually have a medical miracle he can use, so just be aware. It heals a manamon to max health, and also gets rid of all its status ailments.
They apparently were not at their best for the fight, how unfortunate.

Continue north past Robby, a little east, and then you will be confronted by another tamer.
It's too hot out here? That's all you'll say? Ehh, guess it's better than what other thieves have said.

@Thief Elijah
Vibrogen is level 11
Flarebra is level 12
Still complaining about how it's hot? Fair enough.

You may have to walk around Elijah before being able to head north. Once you do, head a bit west. You will find a chest which contains a sweet tonic.
Tonics essentially give manamon training points that they are missing. Since manamon have a certain amount of training points at a certain level, they are sometimes no where near the maximum training points they are allowed to have. This is especially common with feral manamon.
That being said, tonics will give them those training points, though it depends on the tonic. Just press N to find out.
When you attempt to use it, it will let you know how many training points the manamon you have highlighted is missing out on.
Once you have the tonic, head east through a little narrow path. You will run into...
Yet another turrubble! That makes 3 in the valley! Because turtles are pretty popular. Aaron must have this massive thing for turtles. :D
Once you have faced off against that Turrubble, you can head south through the gap. Continue south until you reach the southern wall, then follow it west.
The southern wall will disappear, so you can then head south, keeping to the west wall for guidance.
Eventually you will find a door. This leads into a house.
At the western end of the house is another door, which leads into Vermechaw City.

_Vermechaw City
A man named Eshcon who can make it rain. Well then, that's certainly a new one. But that's not important at the moment.
I don't mind the layout of this city too much. The buildings are sort of stacked a bit in some places, but otherwise some are in their own individual spaces.
If you head a little south, assuming you are right next to the door you came through, a building will appear on your west. Follow it south, then when it opens up, head west and through the door to the north.

_Vermechaw's Manamon Marketplace
A bit northwest of the door is the seller.
This one offers the same thing as Konduan's marketplace, except it has some new items and a few more pieces of equipment.

$Small Shield
This gives a manamon +7 defense, but unfortunately the wearer is more vulnerable to standard type attacks. I'd probably give this to something that does not take heavy damage from standard type attacks, such as a stone or steel type, but of course it is completely up to you.

$Frail Shield
If you are looking for a shield with no penalty, this one gives +5 defense to a manamon with no drawbacks. Of course it is 2 less defense than the small shield, but it's still an average shield.

$Stiff Robe
Recoil causes the manamon you are using unable to attack when it is its turn. This robe prevents it from recoiling. Upon examination, there are no penalties, so go ahead and toss this on whoever you deem appropriate to wear it.

You will also notice that there is an additional net called a meganet. A meganet is a bit stronger than a mananet, and has a higher likelyhood of catching a manamon.
Since your manamon are starting to gain more and more health, strong herbs are on offer, which heals a manamon up to 70 hit points, rather than a standard herb which only gives 35. Consider buying these as your manamon begin to get above 35 hit points.
alright. Buy what you want to buy, sell what you want to sell, you know the drill.
There is a person in the northeast corner that is trying to decide between buying a small shield or a frail shield. We'll leave it up to them to decide.
Let's head out.

Now that you are out of the marketplace, heading south will bring you to yet another building. Going around it will present you with a door to the north. Go ahead and head in.

_Mayor's House
Hmm. This house is under a header.
Houses which are usually labeled (not just called House), or have significance, will be given one. Otherwise, they are not.
This is the mayor's house. In the northeastern corner, the mayor has this sort of idea that Eshcon is no harm. Okay then, you believe what you wish to believe, my friend.
In the northwestern section of the house, the mayor's son is bragging about how he would have probably had the master title by now. Good for you.
Alright, there's nothing special here, so let's head on out.

the house and the marketplace are a bit diagonal from each other, with no way between them on the western side. What you will have to do is go to the marketplace door, then work your way east around the building until it opens up to the north.
Head east along the building, then when it is behind you, head west so that you are up against the western wall.
Go ahead and proceed north, and you will head straight through the door into the next building.

_Vermechaw's Mana Hotel
It's just your regular old hotel. Heal up if you need to, use the transportal if required, and then head out.
Or, you can stop by and try out the wireless communications system, unless you checked it out at Konduan's hotel.

Buzz. Power outage!
This is where things get a bit fun, and we must do some problem solving.
Head south from where you came. Eventually, you will come across the wall you followed from the marketplace. It opens up eventually, but that time I told you to go straight. Instead, take it west and keep it behind you.
When the wall opens up, head north, and you will run into a building. The door is not aligned with you, so move slightly west, and then you will be able to head inside.

_Vermechaw Powerplant
Manamon Available: Electrist, Zapistan, Jiminar, Pythor, Vipesla

#Electrist
???

#Zapistan
???

#Jiminar
Type: Electric
This cat is quite fast, and its quite good in terms of special attack. However, land an earth move on this thing, or a magic type move, and it's pretty much toast. AKA, its defenses are quite flawed.
It has two transformations. It first transforms into Jiminite, and then you are able to use a lightning element on it, similar to Friggle, to transform it into Jimitron.
If you need a decent electric type for a starting team, feel free to grab one. However, keep in mind they are quite rare, and it won't be easy getting one. So make sure you have some nets on hand.

#Pythor
Type: Electric and Poison
This thing is just, terrible. I'm sorry but it must be said. It is extremely vulnerable, and since it is both electric and poison, it has a double weakness to magic and earth type attacks. It gets some pretty decent electric moves, but it doesn't seem to get many poison moves at all, from my experience of fighting tamers that have it on their team.
It eventually transforms into Thundron later on, but even then it is still really bad.
There are better electric types out there. Pythor is just not on the list.

#Vipesla
???

Strange, the power is still on here. Well, let's figure out why that is.
In all four corners (southwest, southeast, northwest and northeast) are switches. Those are the sounds you are hearing. Flip all of them on by pressing Enter, Space or C, whichever you prefer. To be honest, I don't think these need to be flipped, but hey. Nothing wrong with messing with a few switches.
You may notice that to the east, there is a buzzing sound, followed by a wall that cannot be passed. This is a forcefield. To lower this forcefield, we will have to go through the door located on the northern end of the room.
With that being said, after you toggle the switches, you can go towards the door that is located in the northern section.
Once you walk through, you will get details about electrified floors.
Essentially you want to avoid these at all times. Stepping on them will cause your manamon to get injured. Each will end up severely injured and unable to participate, and once your whole team is defeated, you will be returned to the last place you healed, just as if it were to happen in a real battle.
Fear not though, as there are ways around these floors.
Do not head north. Instead, from the door, head west, as there is a gap against the southern wall where the western wall opens up.
The western wall is just one tile wide, so it will almost instantly disappear after taking a few steps west, allowing you to continue north.
Now that the wall is to your east, hug it and travel north. It will eventually open up to the east. Take it.
The wall behind you will go away, and you will be able to hear the electricity behind you. in other words, do not go south!
Continue east (ignore the northern space before you for now), and eventually a new wall to the north will appear. Ignore it and continue east until it is no longer there.
Now with the wall to your west, head towards the next wall to the north, then travel east along it. You will find a chest, containing a rare jewel. Good for selling.
South of that chest is another one, which contains 2 revives. Use them wisely.
Now you may make your way back to the electrified floor so it is behind you. Head north instead of heading east where we previously were, and you will run into another wall to the north.
With the wall to your north, travel along it to the west, and it will open up to the north. continue through it.
You will start to hear switches, one against the west wall and the other against the east wall.
Flip both on, and you will hear a loud buzz, followed by a message indicating the forcefield in the room we just came from is gone. This means that the eastern path is now free.
Now, let's head back!
Keep to the western wall, then travel south along it. It will eventually go away, so head west to find it again, then continue going south.
When you reach the southern wall, travel east along it. You will start to hear the door leading out. Head south out the door and back into the main room.
Now in the main room, head to the eastern side where the forcefield previously was, then head through the large gap east.
When you reach the eastern wall, travel south along it, and then when it opens up, continue east.
You will start to hear a ladder which is on the northern wall. Locate it, and then head up.

_Vermechaw Powerplant F2
Whoa! Where did you come from! Tamer right from the get go!
No, you are not an employee.

@Electrician Darcy
Picsor is level 12
Electrist is level 12
Thanks for going easy.

With that worker/tamer out of the way, head north.
You will start to hear ladders in various locations. Like the way I did it in the museum, we will go through each ladder from left to right, and then slowly work our way up.
With that being said, the first ladder is in the southwest area. You will have to head up from the south side, so in case you wonder why you cannot get up the ladder, that's why.

_Powerplant Roof
Ah, another electrician. Doesn't seem too happy about fixing these electricity problems. Don't blame you.

@Electrician Jed
Flarebra is level 11
Jiminar is level 11
Yes, milking cows definitely sounds a lot easier. I commend your efforts, though.

With each ladder, there will be a generator and a switch. Flip the switch, and then head back down.

_Back in Vermechaw Powerplant F2
Now that you are done with that ladder, head a bit northwest, and you will encounter the next ladder. Head up.

_Powerplant Roof
Oh, it's a programmer! Finally someone who specializes in something different!
There's no software problem. Well that's good.

@Programmer Nickie
Pythor is level 12
Doving is level 11
Aww, sorry you're tired.
Wait, why am I being so nice to tamers all of a sudden?
Probably because these ones actually say things that have context.
Oh well...

Flip the switch, then head back down.

_Back in Vermechaw Powerplant F2
So I actually sort of screwed up, and I didn't exactly go in the order i promised. This means the next ladder is basically sort of really far to the east, and then a little bit south. But you can probably identify which ladder is associated with which tamer, so I think you'll be fine.
Anyways, up the ladder we go!

_Powerplant Roof
Of course the generator is fine you simpleton!
Oh wait I am supposed to be nice to them. Or you are. Or... whatever.

@Electrician Devin
Tadder is level 13
Oh, okay. Have fun in your car.

Flip the switch, and back down we go.

_Back in Vermechaw Powerplant F2
Head east from the ladder, and there will eventually be another one to the south. Find it, and head up.

_Powerplant Roof
Of course your hair will stand on end. You're like, right next to a generator.

@Electrician Oscar
Squirmunk is level 13
Electric isn't your type? I feel you. Sometimes they're a bit annoying to handle.

You know the drill. Go flip the switch, and then...
Buzz! There was a forcefield in the northwestern section of this floor. Well, it's gone now!
With that done, head back down the ladder.

_Back in Vermechaw Powerplant F2
When you reach the ladder in the northwestern corner, save. Because things are going to get interesting.

_Vermechaw Powerplant F3
Take a few steps and...
Whoa! That isn't just any Mondevol, it's a Hyper Mondevol!

#Mondevol
Type: Magic and Electric
Mondevol is the transformation of a manamon named Montor. This robot packs quite a punch. Since it is both electric and magic type, it can resist quite a lot of moves from various types.
Its health is definitely on the high side, and its defenses are really great. However, the attack stats could be better. Honestly, they shouldn't really bother you that much if you do plan to include this thing on your team, since the moves it gets are deadly anyways.
Montor can be upgraded by using an update installer.

Sadly, this isn't just any Mondevol, as explained below.

@@Hyper Mondevol
Hyper manamon are manamon which are stronger than their original forms. They usually have abilities or skills that are not able to be learned by normal manamon. 
In this case, this is not a regular Mondevol. It has a more advanced move set, and abilities which give it a massive boost in strength and health. It is also immune to some status effects.
So be careful, and fight this thing as best as you can.

When you defeat bosses like hyper manamon, you receive a ton of experience for your party, as well as lots of gold. You don't get a whole lot for this, but remember that this is still a very early point in the game.

_Back in Vermechaw City
Alozza calls you, and you give her a rundown of what happened at the powerplant.
She will also explain to you what a hyper manamon is, probably much better than I did.
Well, that won't be the last one you encounter. You have been warned, both by her and I.
Also, I must say this. If you're ambitious, and you do end up going back there to floor 3, you will find 2 strong herbs and a chest that is locked. These are treasure chests.
Later on in the game, you will receive keys for these types of chests, which will then allow you to unlock them. Some chests are great, others do not have very good items, so always make sure to save beforehand, just in case what you get is not what you want.
alright, we are pretty much done here!
Before you head out of the city, there are a few more things you can do.
A bit southwest from the powerplant is a house, in which a person named Gabriel is willing to give you his Palador for a Gargarram.

#Palador
Type: Holy and Fighting
This manamon is quite good if you are looking for a manamon that has both holy and fighting moves, good attack, and reasonable defense. The only issue is that this is another one of those manamon where it doesn't get very many moves in the second type, in this case fighting.
This gets some holy moves pretty early in the game, unlike others.
It has two transformations, Paladine in the early 30s and then Tenshaino somewhere in the late 40s or so.

When you head out of the house, you can go back through the house at the eastern end of the city that separates the city from Wudrest Valley.

_Back in Wudrest Valley
South of the entrance into the city is another entrance leading into a cave. Let's head in.

_Solphear Cave
There is not a whole lot you can do here quite yet besides fight random manamon, but there is one thing that you can do that you may find beneficial.
From the entrance, head west, staying against the northern wall for guidance.
Eventually you will hear a person to the south. Head toward them.
The person is named Amber, who is a geologist willing to give you a pretty good prize if you bring a manamon named Limewurm, simply for examination and not to take it from you.
. . . Spoiler. The prize is a level 10 Yakshine.
Just be warned, Limewurm is extremely rare to find in this cave. You will be searching for quite a long time. If not, that's amazing, because it took me ages just to find it.
Around the cave, I cannot remember where exactly, you will find a haunted hat. I feel like this does not need its own equipment header, since all it does is boost ghost moves by 25 percent with no penalties.
Alright! With that all out of the way, let's return to Vermechaw.
Follow the path back east, and head through the exit north.

Once you emerge, head north a little to align yourself with the door. Head through the door to the house west, then through the door on the other end.

Do what you wish to do in the city. Heal up, buy items, sell items, etc.
If you got the rare jewel from the powerplant, be sure to sell it for 3500 gold so you can stock up on more items.
Okay, time to leave! This city does not have a stadium, so we're on to the next one!
From the general area of the house and the powerplant, head south. You will hear a gate, which leads to the next map. Let's get going.

_Arduryx Hill
Manamon Available: Frolop, Boveel, Doving, Fyste, Viscow

#Fyste
Type: Fighting
I used this manamon back in Manamon 1, and I can say it is a really powerful manamon. Solid attack, really nice defenses, and generally able to hold up to moves which would usually leave other fighting manamon reeling.
Of course, that is not saying that Fyste is resistant to all of the types that are feffective against fighting. You are going to want to keep this thing away from magic or sound attacks, as they will pretty much make any fighting type beg for mercy, including this one.
From the tamers I have fought, the Fyste in Manamon 2 is actually much more deadly, and it will get elemental punches. Blaze punch, ice punch, and spark punch are among its move set, since they include all their respective types. Flame, ice, and electric.
If you have a plant type you are facing off against, ice or blaze punch will do the job. Water types would reel from spark punch. Any type that is weak to fighting will pretty much suffer from any punch.
This eventually transforms into Fyrate somewhere in the late 20s. I cannot remember when.

#Boveel
Type: Holy
This calf is quite an interesting one. It's a holy type, so it gets a pretty holy-based move set.
One of Boveel's downsides, is that the moves that a holy type would usually get early on take quite a long time to get when using this thing.
Talking to different individuals did confirm that this thing will pretty much die to anything effective against it. Its defenses are quite poor, and its speed is a bit questionable.
In my opinion, you may want to steer away from this one.

#Viscow
???

Alright, time to go!
From the gate, you will want to stick to the eastern wall. When it opens up, start heading east. You will begin to hear some tamers.
A kindergartner! Interesting... Exy as a nickname instead of Xavier? How adorable.

@Kindergartner exy
Rucroom is level 13
Doving is level 14
Not a bad team for a kindergartner. Not bad at all.
Well fought, young tamer. Well fought.

Head eest of Exy until you reach the eastern wall. Travel south along it, and the wall will shift a tile to the right. Step to the right to relocate it, then continue south.
Okay, hello Queen Q. Middle school queen huh? Yawn.

@Cool Kid Q
Frolop is level 12
Boveel is level 13
Picsor is level 12
See ya!

You'll have to go around Q to the west, then step past her south. Hug the eastern wall while continuing south.
The wall will eventually open up, so head east towards the next entrance on the map.

_Struttal Cave
Manamon Available: Zinbat, Gronk, Hilimer

#Gronk
Type: Earth and Magic
This earth and magic type is quite a deadly one. At first it starts out with terrible moves, but once you get it into its early 20s and then eventually into its 40s, it starts getting a pretty good move set in my experience with fighting tamers that use it.
It doesn't really die easily to types that are effective against earth and magic, so you can consider its defenses quite impressive. However, it's good practice to keep it away from effective types though, so don't think just because its defenses are great means it can withstand everything that is thrown its way.
It has two transformations, Groller I believe at level 20, and then Grandlan way later on I'd say in the early 40s or so.

#Hilimer
Type: Earth
I've used this thing a few times, but only in its final transformation, Melandin. Purely earth type, it gets a lot of really good earth moves, and sand storm which definitely boosts those moves. The one I had happened to have the ability desert spirit, which significantly boosted them further.
The only downside to this thing is eventually, it just stops gaining any earth moves for a really long time. Then out of nowhere, it gets contained quake, but that decreases your strength by 2 stages each time it's used, so you're essentially just making it weaker.
Honestly, if you want an earth type that is nice and gets really good moves, you could possibly use it early to maybe halfway through the game, but I wouldn't keep it on your team forever.

#Zinbat
Type: Air and Magic
Remember the thieves at the museum? You've seen these in their battles quite frequently. This manamon, like Owlaw, is more for annoying opponents.
Really speedy, good attack, but extremely frail in defenses. Hit this thing with a shadow, electric or stone type, and it's pretty much toast.
Eventually it transforms into Zintrabat, then if you wish, you can use a star element on it, which will transform it into Orystar.
It's funny though, because this thing doesn't really get a lot of air moves. I'm guessing air is just to make up for some of its disadvantages? Either way, since it is magicv and air, ice types will have a significant impact on it.

This cave has several floors, so we'll be here for quite a long time. If you need to grab any healing items, now is the time!
Immediately when you enter, take a single step north to travel against the northern wall, then start heading east.
You will run into the eastern wall. Start traveling along it south
Ignore the gap that presents itself to the east. Instead, find the southern wall, then immediately head west. A gap will open up in the southern wall.
Walk south all the way to the next southern wall. You will hear an item to the west. Get it, it's an encounter down. Trust me, in caves and tunnels, manamon will appear like flies.
If you got the item, head back east. There's still another item we can grab before we officially go back.
Head north, and take the first gap in the eastern wall. Travel to the next eastern wall, then travel north along the wall to the next item, which is a mananet.
Head back south to find the southern wall, then travel west until it ends. When the southern wall disappears, head north. You will run into a wall, but it's okay, just sidestep west and continue north.
Now you will be back at the large eastern gap in the wall, and you should hear the hill's entrance to the west, if that is a suitable landmark for you. This time, take it east, and stick to the northern wall.
You will go through an enclosed gap, so you'll be sandwiched between two walls, one to the north and one to the south. Continue through it east, and you will find the first tamer in this area.
Strange, it's not paying attention to me!
You will sometimes encounter tamers like this, where you are the one that chooses whether you want to battle them or not. Just in case you do choose to battle them, however, I have provided it below.
This tamer is educating you on how equipment is beneficial to your manamon. How kind of him.

@Geologist Emanual
Centi is level 14 with a Bone Dagger equipped
Hilimer is level 13 with a Frail Shield equipped
He's not wrong, equipment is quite limited at the moment.
If you interact with him again, however, he does give you a purple ring. Interacting with him once more makes him realize that he probably shouldn't have given you that ring. But a gift is a gift, and honestly? I have to agree. He does mention Hilimer though. How curious. Read below!

$Purple Ring
Unfortunately, you can not put this ring on a standard type. However, if you have a manamon who maybe has lots of standard moves on hand, you could consider equipping the ring onto it.
Watch out. The description thankfully does say this, but there are some minor stat decreases. Your manamon's strength, defense, speed, and magic attack will be affected slightly. If you think it is more than slightly in your opinion, it is no problem. But for a 50 percent boost, I'd say it's not that bad.
You could put this on a Hilimer like Emanuel said he could probably do, since it does come equipped with some standard moves, but honestly I will leave it in your hands to decide who it goes on. It's your team.

You can head north of Emanuel, as a path has opened up in that direction. You will begin to hear the next tamer ahead of you.
You called into work sick today to explore a cave? Mkay then.

@Gentleman Ross
Gargarram is level 14
Oh you're ill? Sorry, I misjudged.

Continue traveling north for a bit, then two paths will open up, one to the west and one to the east. You want to head west, and stick to the southern wall.
The next wall will be to the west, just a step or two from traveling west against the southern wall I told you to follow. Stick to the western wall, then head north. A new gap in the western wall will appear. Take it west.
Take a few steps north, sticking to the western wall. You will start to hear rocks. Ignore these for now, and continue west until you reach the western wall.
Travel north along the wall to the west. You will hear a staircase. Go ahead and head up.

_Struttal Cave F2
Manamon Available: Everything from F1, plus Metalarve, Effigem

#Metalarve
Type: Steel and Insect
This thing is a beast. Seriously. I've used this thing several times, and it is resistant to tons of types. However, you will definitely want to keep it away from types such as flame, they will wreck it, even with its ability which cuts its damage. Don't bring it near fighting types either, unless you increase its defense (read below).
Really nice attack stats, both on the physical and special spectrum. Its defenses are really great, though its magic defense is something to be a bit careful of. Since it gets both iron guard and hone blade in the future, you can amp its strength and defense up further, which makes this thing even more of a deadly force. It is a tad bit slow, but that's something you can fix with training.
It has two transformations. Castwire in the mid 20s I believe, and Mantasteel somewhere in the 30s.
If you are looking for a solid, powerful steel type that is resistant to tons of attacks, thanks to the fact that it has insect as its second type, consider grabbing this.

#Effigem
???

Congrats, one floor completed!
If you are up for it, let's keep going.
From the stairs, head east until you can go around them, which is about 2 or 3 steps. Then start heading south. Find the southern wall, then travel east along it.
A gap will open up in the southern wall. Take it, and continue south towards a tamer who is jogging continuously from the west side to the east side.
This tamer gives you information about how to scroll past disabled options by utilizing the Control modifier key. How kind.

@Lady Ada
Flarebra is level 14
Granate is level 12

Continue south past Ada, and a gap will open up in the eastern wall. Take it east. As soon as the wall that was previously east becomes a northern wall after you step through the gap, head south, and follow the southern wall east.

A gap will come up in the southern wall. Head south through it until you are all the way at the next southern wall.
If you head west, there is a chest which contains a holy artifact.
If you head east, this is truly where you want to go. With that being said, if you went to grab the artifact, retrace your steps so you are back at where the northern path opens. Then walk east through the enclosed space until the northern wall opens up again.
You'll have to walk north for quite a bit, but you will eventually hear a ladder to the west. Aim for it, then head up.
This is just a detour, this is not the actual way to F3. But don't worry, we're just going here to get items from a chest, and then we'll come back down.

_Struttal Cave F3
Manamon Available: Everything from F2
This is just a room with a single chest in it. Open it to receive an earth net and a nature net.
Earth nets have a higher chance of capturing earth and stone types, while nature nets have a higher chance of capturing plant and air types. Use them wisely!
Okay, we're done here. Back down the ladder.

_Back in Struttal Cave F2
To the left of the ladder is a staircase, which is where we truly want to go. Let's head up.

_Struttal Cave F3
Manamon Available: Everything from F2
There is a nurse who will heal your manamon when you get to this floor, as long as you win the battle. Take advantage of this!

@Nurse jose
Yakshine is level 16
Thank him for the compliment.
He will heal up your team, so you're good to go! I would take this opportunity to save.

Do not go north. The ladder there does not take you through the entirety of F4. It leads to a dead end. The tamer there does heal up your team though, if you are really desperate on heading up. They will also give you a total cure, which heals a single manamon of all its ailments. It does not restore its hit points.
Instead, head south, in the opposite direction of Jose. Keep the eastern wall on your right, then travel south.
A gap will appear in the eastern wall. Head east through it, and hug the southern wall. A gap will eventually come up in the southern wall, so start heading south to some tamers who are dashing around.
The first one is gushing about how mind blowing the cave is.
Note: This is a 3 on 3 battle. She brings out 3 manamon, so you will also bring out 3.

@Lass Stacey
Boveel is level 14, Zinbat is level 14, and Zinbat is level 14
Wow, another tamer that is complimenting your manamon. How sweet.

South some more.
The next one has a standard deck of cards and is drawing one. I do not know what sort of tamer brings a deck of cards into a cave, but okay then. You do you.
Oh wait, it's a tamer trying to be a magician. No wonder.

@Magician Vera
Sullorb is level 15
Two words. Epic, fail!

South. Another tamer.
Why are you trying to break boulders dude? Come on, you're going to break something!
Note: 2 on 2.

@Athlete Manuel
Hilimer is level 15 and Rucroom is level 15
Yes, sounds like a great plan. Good luck!

Before you head west, there is an item to the southeast. It's a strong herb. Make sure to grab it.
Now head west through the gap, and yet another tamer awaits you.
Oh nice, you get paid to be here? I'm jealous.

@Geologist Micky
Hilimer is level 14
Hilimer is level 14
Gronk is level 15
Yeah, losing sucks. Been there, done that.

Now that that tamer is out of your way, head west until it is just open space. Then head south so that you have a wall to follow west.
You are going to be traveling west for quite a long time, so just keep going.
There will be two paths open to the north. The first one you come across will be a little area containing an herb. Make sure to grab it. The one you are truly going to aim for will be the opening all the way west.
Once you finally reach the path on the wwestern side leading north, there will be a chest up against the southern wall, containing 2 skill drinks and a U P restorative.
A U P restorative restores half the usage points on all moves your manamon has, while a skill drink only restores half of the usage points on a certain move you choose. Use them wisely.
Now head north, and you will find your next tamer.
Oh, it's Skeeter's cousin!

@Tough Guy Barney
Boveel is level 14
Squirmunk is level 14

The stairs that Barney was blocking are now open, so climb up.

_Struttal Cave F4
Manamon Available: Everything on F3, plus Marlaunt
Once you are up the stairs, start heading north so that you are up against the northern wall, then head east. Once a gap appears, head north to the first tamer on this floor.
You were named after the color of your eyes. How interesting.

@Lady Hazel
Gronk is level 12
Gronk is level 12
Effigem is level 12
Gronk is level 12
Granate is level 12
Aww, look who's blushing. Or are you angry? Can't tell.
Yeah, she's mad. Interact with her again and she goes away. Apparently you have been categorized as a dumb tamer.

Continue north past Hazel, assuming you didn't make her leave. You will begin to notice that the path will zigzag. Head north, then walk west a bit. Step north, walk west. Continue doing this until the zigzagging ends. There aren't that many.
Now head north to the next northern wall. You will notice that it will zigzag again, to the west. Follow it.
When it ends, head north to the next wall, and it will begin to zigzag right. This time, a few steps east, then north. East, north. Etc etc.
This next part is up to you. You can do it for the experience. Otherwise, ignore it.
North again, and it will zigzag left. Jesus, what is with all these zigzags? You know the drill, west and then north, west, north.
Eventually you will encounter a tamer who asks if you box. I don't know, do you? If so, cool. If not, cool. I don't really care all that much.

@Athlete Mark
Manja is level 16
Ouch, there goes your Manja.

If you went to face Mark, backtrack, so start zigzagging right. South and east, south and east, until you are back at the northern wall where it just started to zigzag left.
Head east from there. eventually you will come to a wall that is evenly north. Head to the end, and a gap will appear to the north. Head through.
You will start to hear a tamer. Once you are through the gap, begin to head east to encounter them.
Well, I'm sorry you don't like stadiums so much. And stuffy and boring? Damn, watch it with the insults and the attitude.

@Lad Caesar
Frolop is level 15
Doving is level 15
What is it with this guy and Hazel?

There is a path north of Caesar, so head through it.
You will eventually hear a ladder, so head up.
And, we're out!

_Solphoa Peninsula
That, was quite the trek. I would immediately take advantage of the fact that the hotel is southeast of the ladder.
Head east a bit, then head south. You will run into the northern side of the building. Head a bit west so it is to your right, then head south.
When the building is no longer to the east, head north, and through the door.

_Solphoa's Hotel
Heal, use the transportal, do trading or battles, whatever you wish to do.
There is a girl in the southeastern section who will give you 5 scorch ointments if you interact with her. She also lets you know that flame types cannot be scorched, and electric types cannot be paralyzed. Good infromation.
Alright, let's head out.

South of the hotel are some other buildings you should consider checking out.
From the hotel's door, head south so you are up against the southern wall, then head west. Eventually the southern wall will disappear, so start heading south.
You will eventually hear a door. Head inside.

_Solphoa's Manamon marketplace
Nope. No disturbing protesters, tamers, or complainers in here. Just the seller.
The seller offers super encounter downs, which make manamon stay away from you for 400 steps rather than 150 when using standard ones.
The bone dagger and little wand are also here, however notice how they say 2.0. This is because these versions no longer have any downsides. Strength and magic attack are boosted, with no penalties. Take advantage of this!
If you have a sound type, make sure to grab a megaphone. It boosts sound moves by 25 percent, plus it gives 5 additional magic attack with no penalties.
Watch out when it comes to the helmet and the suit. Make sure to view their descriptions, as they are quite severe in terms of penalties.
Okay, let's head out.

Heading out of the marketplace is another building to the west. You will hit its eastern wall, so head south, and then when it vanishes, go west to find the door which opens north.

_Kiarre Bank
Unlike Manamon 1, Manamon 2 has a bank, in which you can store gold you want to save for later, or even items.
If you go north a bit and talk to the person, they will ask you if you would like an account free of charge. If you want one, select yes.
If you have at least 100 gold in your account, you are able to hearn a constant amount of 2.5 percent in interest.
You can also withdraw gold from a transportal, but the downside is that there is a 5 percent fee. It's not that much, but if you are a really greedy person, you can just come back here and withdraw your gold.
Withdrawing items does not count. You will not be charged anything.
Similar to the hotel, in the northwestern corner, you will find a terminal with the transportal sound effect, except this one is for the bank.
You can withdraw items or gold, or deposit from here, with no charge. Feel free to put some gold in there right now if you want, or even an item or two you think you may need later.
Okay, let's head out.

So there is a quite interesting scene to watch just for entertainment purposes, if you are up for it.
Immediatley head east from the bank.
And you are now going to witness an interesting battle between two tamers. Though they cut you off from watching the rest.
Don't worry, we'll be back here. It's one of Manamon's ways of saying, you can't go here yet.
Alright. Head back north, west around the marketplace since that is where the battle took place, a bit east of the marketplace.
Now head past the hotel, and aim for the northwester section of the peninsula, towards one of the most important buildings here. And you will encounter the person we all know and love!
Byron!
And he's not happy, either. Time for a rematch.
Also what do you mean by you don't have all day? You're the one deciding to put up a fight.

@Byron
Hilimer is level 16
Gowater, Ribignis, or grenaverb is level 18
Gowater is the transformation of Kiduddle, Ribignis is the transformation of Lavrog, and Grenaverb is the transformation of Grekko.
What a dumbass. How would he know if someone is prepared for a stadium or not? Get lost.

The building in front of you is the stadium, though we have things to do before we actually head in.
Remember the battle that was in progress to the right of the marketplace and the bank? Well it is open now!
When you head east of the marketplace and the bank, a huge space will open up, and you will start to hear a door. Head for it.

_Solphoa's Madam Boveel's
Well well well! Look who we have here!
It's Eshcon!
Time for battles!
Again, I will use the same pattern. west, east, north. west, east, north.
With that being said, head a ways north to avoid the table to your west, then head west so it is behind you. You will start to hear an Eshconite (as they are called) to the left.
No, we're not scramming! Is that even a word? I don't know.
Note: 2 on 2.

@Eshconite Rosiette
Viscow is level 17 and Boveel is level 17
Stop serving Eshcon then. You're clearly too soft for the job.

Head north a bit more. There is no one on the western end, so head east and you will confront another eshconite. They're north of Madam Westwood.
Be discrete all you want, but you are searching a restaurant with no permission. Out with you!

@Eshconite Laurensin
Zinbat is level 16
Hilimer is level 17
Vipesla is level 18
Yeah, didn't feel too good did it?

Nothing west or east a ways north from Madam Westwood, so head north some more, past a few tables.
You will reach a point where you can hear eshconites both east and west. Let's go west first.
The eshconite to the west has something to say about not having to use force if the diner would give them what they are looking for. Well out of all the places, why would a diner have what you are looking for? I mean what are you even looking for, a toothbrush?
Note: 2 on 2.

@Eshconite Pauxei
Vipesla is level 17 and Pythor is level 17
Vibrogen is level 18
No, more force is not necessary, at all.

The one on the eastern side of the diner things that Eshcon is a savior from the drought. I'm sorry, but you are really mistaken.

@Eshconite Danebba
Picsor is level 17
Wolfsyre is level 18
Wolfsyre is a transformed Picsor.
Pinching yourself as punishment for failing Eshcon will not help...

Whoops? Eshcon has found out what you are up to.
Oh, he's going to put on a rain performance for you! How sweet! He might as well start doing the rain dance while he's at it, rather than snapping his fingers!
Aww, guess not. How sad...
Oh, there's Byron again.
Wait, why is he asking about Eshcon?
I know, but I can't tell you. You'll find out.
Now that it is all over, you can go over to her and ask for meat pies, 450 gold each. If you feed them to manamon, it will cure all status ailments.
The first time, she will give you a free one for helping to get rid of Eshcon and his followers.
Before you leave, along the eastern wall is a Nymph Wand.

$Nymph Wand
Be careful, another one of those pieces of equipment which are sneaky by not including anything about their penalties in the description. Your magic attack has a significant boost, but check how much strength and defense you lose.
Choose which manamon to put this on wisely, or sell it. It is completely your choice.

Okay, that is about everything now. Enough procrastinating, let's go challenge that stadium!
Head out of the diner to the south.

From the door, head west until you find the western wall, then follow it south until it opens. Proceed west from there.
The door you are hearing is the marketplace. Before you head for the stadium, feel free to stop by and get items. Otherwise, continue west past it, then start heading north.
The next building you'll start to hear is the mana hotel. Again, if you need to heal from all that fighting, if you haven't already, take this opportunity to do so.
Go around the mana hotel, and head east to avoid the ladder. Once the ladder is behind you, start heading west and north. The stadium is in the northwestern section of the city.
Also regarding the bird that keeps flying away from you, that's a Hydrobird. No, you cannot capture it, sadly. And no, I will not cover it here for that reason.
You will start to hear a door, and Byron is there!
Kidding, kidding. Remember, he's not blocking the door anymore. Head inside.

_Solphoa Stadium
Type: Water
In Manamon, there will be lots of areas where you must cross over water. This stadium is one of them.
Every now and then, there will be boats moving from one end to the other constantly. Each section of water has its own assigned boat. For Example, a boat will go west, then come east, but it will never go to any other area besides where it is supposed to be located.
If it doesn't make sense, it will soon.
Alright, start heading north.
There will be a person that tells you how to wait for a boat, get on, and get off.
I'll explain in a second how to board and leave a boat in more auditory detail.
From that individual, head west along the northern wall. There will be a very small gap. Head through it to find the first stadium tamer.
And you have just found out that the name of the stadium leader is Brooklynne. What a beautiful name.
You have the most prepared tamers? Cut the crap. Let's show them that that is quite false.

@Fisher Fortunato
Finaut is level 17
Torto is level 17
Yeah, that's right. Your plan failed.

Head a bit north from Fortunato until there is open space. Continue north, then start following the northern wall east until you reach the sound of water.
Every now and then, you will hear a rumbling sound as you stand in front of the water. You want to center this rumbling sound, and then when it is close enough, step forward. This is the boat that will take you to the other end.
The boat will automatically move you in the direction it goes in. North is this one. When you hear the sound of dirt, as the person near the entrance said, immediately step off in the direction you hear it in. In this case, it is north.
If you miss it, just wait for the boat to head in the opposite direction, then try again.
If all went well, stepping off the boat will conveniently make you be spotted by a tamer.
This one has wrecked his ship, and this is how he's paying for it to be repaired. Sorry dude.

@Sailor Jim
Friggle is level 17
Hipplish is level 17
Keep your curse words to yourself, sir.

West will be another section of water you can cross. This boat goes from east to west, so board it until you reach the western side.
Once you get off, keep to the eastern wall, and start heading south.
When you reach the southern wall, start heading west along it. The next tamer is here.
Manamon battles while traveling on boats? Sounds dangerous if you ask me, dude.

@Swimmer Shawn
Luscish is level 17
Luscish is level 17
I don't care how well you fight in your own element. You still lost, mkay?

Remember how in the tutorial, you were instructed on what to do when a gap is right next to or directly behind a tamer, and you may not notice it there?
Well, this is one of those instances. Immediately south of Shawn is a gap in the southern wall, which is where we want to go. Head around Shawn so that he is directly in front of you, then head south through it, and you will encounter the next tamer.
Well, you chose to work at a water stadium. Don't blame people for dripping on you. If you hate water so much, go work at a dryer stadium.

@Swimmer Jared
Finaut is level 18
No comment. Wait, I commented by saying that. Nevermind.

Another gap is right next to the tamer situation. Head immediately east of Jared and there will be another gap in the southern wall. Take it.
Stick to the western wall once you are out of the gap, then head south. Once you are up against the southern wall, head west a few steps.
There is a switch here. Flip it on. This will cause the forcefield north of Jim to disappear.
Alright, let's head back. Locate the body of water to the east by taking the gaps north from the switch, past Jared and then past Shawn. Then head east.
You may hear the sound of another section of water to the north. We cannot go there yet, we have one more switch to flip.
Take the boat back east, and then head north. Where the forcefield previously was will be a little room. The switch will be there, so flip it on. You will be notified that boat 3 has been lowered into the water. The boat it is referring to is the boat for the section of water north from Shawn and Jared.
With that being said, head back west to the eastern section of water, board the boat to the western side, then head north.
This section of water is quite lengthy, so the boat will take quite a long time to go between the southern and northern exits. So make sure to time it correctly, otherwise you will be waiting quite a bit before it comes back.
Once you are out and on the northern side, save. The stadium leader awaits.
Did you have fun riding her boats? Answer honestly.
Okay! Second stadium battle!
NOTE: For players playing the demo mode of Manamon 2, this is the last stadium you are able to fight in.

@@Stadium Leader Brooklynne
Hipplish is level 20
Friggle is level 20
Angillish is level 20
Watch out for the Angillish. It has two restoration moves. When combined, they will heal Angillish by a certain amount of health twice every turn. This makes it harder for it to be defeated.
A plant or electric type should do the job of bringing it down.
Drowning in the excitement? Terrible pun but, okay. :D
And now you have your second key, the tide key! Nice work!
The vapor garment you get as a helpful piece of equipment is quite unique. There are no penalties to it either, and she explains what it does. Put it on whichever manamon you deem appropriate, so long as it falls under the type requirements.

Second stadium down! Feel good?
Alright, let's head back. Take the boat back south, then take the one leading east. Take the final boat to the south, and that's all the boats you need to get to the entrance.
Keep in mind when you get off, you will need to head west a little bit for the southern path to open up. Once you reach the southern wall again, head east so that the door is behind you, then step out.

Alright, we are back in the city, with your second key!
Before we head on out though, heal your manamon at the mana hotel, and then let's go on a quick adventure.
Now that you have the key, you are now able to go to a special place in the Peninsula Wilds.
Head all the way to the southern section of the city, and you will hear an exit. Take it.

_Peninsula Wilds
Manamon Available: Hipplish, Embird, Torto, Mirron
From the exit, start heading south until you reach the southern wall. Start to follow it west until it opens, then continue south.
Keeping to the east wall, wait until it disappears, then take the new path east. Once you find the next eastern wall, follow it south to find an item, specifically a gunk element.
Gunk elements are one of the transformation items in the game. If you use it from your inventory, assuming you have a manamon on your team which benefits from it, it will immediately start transforming.
Be careful when you transform your manamon! The moves the manamon learns when it is not transformed may not be able to be learned in its transformed state!
With that out of the way, follow the southern wall west, and you will start to hear a door.

_Peninsula Wilds, House
In this house are two people.
The one immediately to the west when you enter is Leah, who is willing to give you an Autoson if you have an Aperishian. That is up for you to decide, so if you have one and would like an Autoson instead, feel free to accept the offer. You won't see Aperishian for awhile anyway, unless you decide to trade online with someone.
The one to the north is complaining about the radio and how there is always conspiracy theories. Honestly these are one of these rants from people in the game that actually make sense. Clearly research was done.
There's nothing else in here, so let's head out.

Heading west from the house is water. Follow it north, and you will hear a gate to the west. Let's head in.

_Polar Preserve
Manamon Available: None Yet
Immediately from the gate, start heading west, and you will be stopped by someone, I would assume some sort of clerk or guard, perhaps a ranger? Not sure.
This person wants to confirm you have the Solphoa Stadium key before being able to enter. Your inventory screen will open. Simply arrow left or right until you find the Other category, then find the tide key and hit Enter on it.
Now you are free to come and go as you please. With that being said, head to the northern wall, then follow it west.
Once the northern wall ends, continue north through the next gate. Same map, just another entrance.
Manamon Available: Houndorf, Swinguin, Elephrost, Helpup
Feel free to catch any of the ice types here.
West of the gate is a hidden item, specifically a treasure chest key. You're welcome.
In one of the corners, sort of in the northeast section, will be a chest containing an Ancient Crypt Key. This will be important later.
Alright. Do what you wish, then head south for the gate. Once you are through, head east to the final gate and you'll be out of the preserve.

_Back in Peninsula Wilds
From the preserve gate, you can simply head north to find the northern wall, then head a little east to find the entrance back.

_Back in Solphoa Peninsula
Alright, that's about it! Let's wrap some more things up here and we'll be out.
From the entrance into Peninsula Wilds, head west until you run into water, then follow the water north. The western area will open up twice, one to just a blank wall and the next to an actual path that goes west. You want to take that path.
You will hear a house and a person you know very well. But first, head into the house.

_Captain Astrid's House
I usually like to show events that are blocking someone from doing something. This is one of them.
In this case, if you head west and speak to Astrid, she will say that she needs to take a nap and that you should come back later.
To the south, Astrid's daughter Alma is gushing about her mother and what she does. That's so sweet of her. And I mean that genuinely.
Okay. There's nothing else in here, so let's go wait outside.

No, waiting isn't actually the solution. You could sit with Manamon open for 24 hours and it wouldn't do shit. Instead we must fight the person east of the house to get Astrid to finish her nap.
So let's fight...
Oh, it's Oghma again! He's checking out the ocean. And he's apparently heading to Ittanill City.
No, that's not a city we go to in this game, sadly.
Alright, the battle is on!

@Oghma
Metalarve is level 18
Kubineral is level 19
Kubineral is the first transformation of Yakshine.
Since you haven't faced Oghma in awhile, his Kubineral has learned both holy light and holy water, so watch your back. Holy light is holy type, while holy water is both holy and water type.

Okay, now Astrid will kindly take you to your next destination, so let's head back west and into her house.

_Back in Captain Astrid's House
Now when you speak to Astrid, there will be a different result.
She will ask if you want to sail with her to Shadow Canyon, which is your next destination. If you need to go stock up on items, select No. Otherwise, all hands on deck!
Once you sail, you are not able to return! If you absolutely need to do anything in the city, do it now. Grind, buy, and sell. Those are my top 3 recommendations.

_Shadow Canyon
I don't know if it is just me, but this place has always given me the creeps. That being said, I know I am supposed to assist, being the writer of this guide, so let's just, get this over with. I have to agree with Astrid, let's do this and be done.
You will be placed in front of the water where you got off at. No, there are no boats to come rescue you, sorry.
Okay, let's go.
Manamon Available: Skelitten, Ratsal, Thornub, Minitaur

#Minitaur
Type: Earth
I've used this thing a couple of times. It starts out pretty weak, but then it eventually becomes a fair manamon to use later on in the game, gaining Steel type and being able to use some pretty decent steel moves. Although it is primarily earth type, so it gains more earth moves.
It transforms into Clubble somewhere in the late 20s or early 30s, and then later on it transforms into Matauris.

#Thornub
Type: Plant and Poison
This plant and poison type is, okay. It gets some pretty good plant and poison moves, but I feel like from my experience, its attack stats are quite lacking, as well as its defense. It will pretty much go down to anything that is effective against it, such as flame and ice.
Even with all the deadly moves it gets, they don't really do as much damage as some other plant types would.
It will transform into Farivia, but in order to get it to transform into its final form, that being Treezon, you need to use a Chlorophyll Element.

#Ratsal
Type: Standard and Poison
I've never really used this manamon much, but I can say that Ratsal is a pretty decent standard type, with the exception that its stats are quite lacking. It gets some pretty reasonable moves, both standard and poison, but I personally feel like there are better standard types out there, such as Frolop for instance.
Ratsal only has one transformation, that being Ratiera, but even then its moves are not as satisfying in my opinion. Perhaps it is a decent early manamon to use, but I would not keep it for the rest of the game.

#Skelitten
???

Immediately to the east is a building. Follow its eastern wall south, then when the way is open, head east to the door.

_Shadow Canyon's Dilapidated Marketplace
Manamon Available: Same as outside

Almost every place in Shadow Canyon will have manamon in it, so just be warned. As you can see, the marketplace is one of them.
If you head north from the door, you will hear a buzzing sound. Instead of a seller, since Shadow Canyon is pretty much in ruins, there is a machine with software on it called the Shadow Canyon Shopping Assistant. It works exactly like your standard human seller, just with different menu sounds. Feel free to purchase stuff here.
This place is pretty much the same as previous cities, except there are only 2 pieces of equipment in this one.

$Gas Mask
If you place this on a manamon, it will make them immune to the poison status effect, however it will also make it more resistant to poison type attacks by about 10 percent. The amount of speed is slightly reduced for stronger manamon, but if your manamon has a reasonable amount of speed, this shouldn't necessarily be a big issue.
I would honestly give this mask to a plant or insect type, or something that is vulnerable to poison attacks. However, it is up for you to decide.

$Speed Anklet
This little anklet boosts speed by 20 percent but lowers defense stats by 10 percent. Similar to the mask, if you think you have a manamon that has reasonable defense stats, by all means, feel free to use it.
Hint: Doving may benefit from it.

Alright. Feel free to buy or sell whatever you wish, and then let's head out.

From the marketplace's door, start heading west until you find the western wall. Follow it south, and when the wall opens up, head west.
You will run into yet another building. Follow its eastern side south, and then when the way is open, head west and through the door.

_Shadow Canyon, House
I feel like this is an important place to point out, hence why I gave it a header.
A bit northwest from the door, a person named Howard informs you about...
Oh dear. There's possibly another hyper manamon here?
Well, we'll deal with that later.
Pedro is kitty corner from Howard, so you can head over to converse with him if you wish. He is just informing you about how Howard would fill your head with his research.
Okay, that is all in here. Let's head out. Assuming you did go to see Howard and Pedro, just head back southeast.

From the house's door, continue west, and you will eventually come across a door that is almost perfectly lined up with the house's door. All you have to do is take a few steps north.

_Shadow Canyon's Abandond Hotel
Manamon Available: Same as outside

Yes, even the hotel has manamon in it. After all, it is abandoned.
The bed is in its usual spot, as well as the transportal. However, since this is abandoned, there isn't anyone to assist with doing online battles or trades, so you're going to have to wait until you reach the next hotel.
I personally find this to be a perfect place to train your manamon. Not only is there a bed which is convenient for healing up and constantly battling, but there is also a transportal, so you can exchange manamon if you wish.
Where the person in the northeastern section would usually be, is actually a gap. If you head north through it, there is a chest. This chest however, is locked, and you require a treasure chest key.
As previously mentioned in this guide, you require a treasure chest key to open these.
. . . Spoiler. The chest contains 2 revives, and an element guard. The element guard gives 10 percent protection against flame, water and plant attacks, but your manamon's strength and magic attack are slightly decreased.
Whether you choose to open the chest or not is completely up to you.
If you wish to train your manamon here, do so. Otherwise, heal up, and we are going to go on yet another adventure. And not a fun one either.

Before we officially get started, there is one more useful spot we can go check out.
If you follow the hotel around to the west, and continue north, you will encounter another building. Head inside.

_Shadow Canyon's Ancient Stadium
Manamon Available: Same as outside
No, there is no actual stadium leader here, and no, there are no tamers.
However, there are items which my benefit you in here.
A bit northeast of the entrance is a Max Skill Drink.
Along the far northern wall is an Herb.
There is a gap in the western wall near the southern section. Go ahead and take it, and when it opens up to the north, head north.
You will eventually come across 3 encounter downs. Very useful for a place like this.
There will also be a gap in the eastern wall the further you head north, immediatley after encountering the encounter downs (see what I did there)? Head through it east.
When you are able to go north, go ahead and do so, and a gap will quickly pop up to the west. You want to head west through it.
Do not go south, there's nothing there. Instead, take a few steps north, and another gap to the west will appear. Take it west.
When you reach the western wall, start heading north, and you will find other items, specifically 3 Herbs.
Continue north, and you will start to step on debris. You are fine, just continue north.
Once you reach the northern wall, start heading east.
You will eventually find a treasure chest. If you have a key, go ahead and open it to get 2 strong herbs, and a headstone amulet.
The amulet can only be worn by undead manamon, but it makes it immune to holy attacks and boosts its undead attacks, more specifically, a 10 percent boost. No penalties either!
Now head back west, and stick to the northern wall. Once you reach the western wall, follow it south.
You want the furthest gap to the right on the southern wall. Do not take the one on the left, that's the dead end I mentioned previously.
Now head back south through it, and keep to the western wall. A gap will eventually appear, so take it west a few steps.
When the southern wall disappears, head south and stick to the eastern wall.
Eventually a gap will appear in the eastern wall. Take it, and then you will be back in the main area of the stadium.
Now, simply find the door to the south, and we're out.

Okay, it's time to get to work!
You are going to want to go east from the stadium, and then head south toward the hotel, which I will consider the starting point. You will be lined up with the hotel's western wall, so simply follow it south, then when the wall disappears, head east to be in front of it.
If you need to heal, train, etc, now is your chance.
Now from the hotel's door, head back east. Since the hotel is slightly northwest of Howard's house, you will have to follow its wall south, then continue east when it opens up.
Continue heading east, and eventually you will run into the eastern wall. Follow it north, and when it opens, head east, and keep to the southern wall.
A gap will open up in the southern wall. Take it, and you will notice that when you step to the right, there is a giant building. This is our destination.
Of course, the door isn't on the back of it, so we're going to walk for awhile until we reach the front. Well okay, it's not that huge, it's just the biggest building in Manamon 2.
When the western wall of the building disappears, follow the front of it east, and you will hear a... I'm not sure if this is a door or some sort of gate. But head on inside, it functions just like a normal door.

_Great Hall
Happy Halloween, Manamon Edition! A ghost is here to welcome you into this place, a ghostly image of a man. Goodness, as if things could not get any worse in this place.
Eventually the ghost disappears. Talk about even more mystery.
Let's get to the bottom of this insanity.
Manamon Available: Nothing
No seriously there's nothing here. It's abandoned.
Right? It's strange, I could have sworn there was something he...
Holy shit! There are!
Hahahaha, I was only joking with you. There are manamon here.
Manamon Available: Spirost, Torchin, Chiroperta, Marlaunt, Ghoulad

#Torchin
Type: Flame and Ghost
I've used this thing a few times in my travels. It's a nice balanced flame and ghost type, gaining pretty good moves in their respective types.
This transforms somewhere in the mid 20s or so into Lantler.
You may want to keep this away from ghost attacks or other types effective against it. Although it has really good attack stats, its defenses are quite on the frail side. The one I had, unless I messed it up, would die to a ghost move in just one or two hits. It was a bit more resistant to water, but otherwise it would just flop to basically any other type effective against ghost or flame.

#Chiroperta
Type: ghost and Air
I've never really used Chiroperta. To be honest I don't see a lot of usage of this thing in both Manamon 1 and Manamon 2, even by other players I've battled with online or even tamers in the actual game.
From feral fights though, this thing doesn't really seem to learn any sort of ghost moves, or at least not enough to be considered Ghost and Air. From the few tamers that do have it, it's mostly just full of air moves.
It eventually transforms into Ghoperto in the early 30s.
I'm sorry I don't really know much about this manamon, but the disclaimer does say manamon are not covered in heavy detail.

#Spirost
???

Okay. Now that that ghost has vanished, you are free to continue.
Before we actually go anywhere, head west. You will hear a treasure chest. If you have a key, feel free to open it. It contains an EXP pal.
The way this tool works, is you give it to a manamon. Not equip, give. You do this by selecting the Give Item option when you choose a manamon in your party. Then, any time you go into a battle, the EXP is divided between the manamon you fought with, and the manamon that is holding the EXP Pal.
This is a good way to train up a manamon that is lower in level.
Now head back east, assuming you went for the chest. Then head north until you run into a table.
This table has nothing on it, but other tables do!
The table furthest to the west has a total cure on it.
Now, head back to the entrance, but go around the table and go to the next table to the north. This table has 100 gold on it. The table just north of that also has 100 gold on it.
Don't bother about the tables to the west and east, there is nothing on them.
Okay, that's enough looting from tables.
Usually, the same technique of heading north and checking out the west and east doors as they appear would be used, but since there is only one door on the western wall, we want to check out the other areas first. With that being said, we're going to go counterclockwise, because the door leading west leads to a place where we'll be down there for awhile. Yes, you heard me. Down.
Head east, and find the first door located on the eastern wall.

_Storage Room
Manamon Available: Same as Great Hall
There is not much in this storage room, though if you need additional healing items, the box in the northwestern corner contains a total cure that you can grab.
Okay, that's all. Head west out the door.

Continue north from the storage room's door, and you will find the next door to the east.

_Servants' Quarters
Manamon Available: Same as Great Hall
Ignore all the beds that are quite distasteful, and aim for the southeastern corner of the area to find 50 gold.
Go north past the bed that was in front of the gold, and you will hear another item, 50 gold again.
You may have heard a gap present itself in the eastern wall. Take it, and then when it is open space, go to the southeastern corner to find a medical miracle.
Head back west to where you found the second pile of gold (well it's not really a pile), and head north. You will hear a chest. Open it to receive a bone dagger. You've seen this piece of equipment a few times already.
Okay, that's all there is here. Head to the western wall, then find the door and head out.

Head north along the eastern wall. When you reach the northern one, follow it west, and you will hear a door. Head north through it.

_Royal Bed Chamber
Manamon Available: Same as Great Hall
There is a chest in this area, as well as a door that won't be of much use right now. In other words, we're here for the chest.
Head north to the northern wall, then follow it east. If you do end up running into a wall to the east, follow it south, then when it opens, resume your walk east.
When the northern wall disappears, head north. You will hear a loud creaking sound. This is the door I was referring to.
Ignore it for now, and head west through the narrow gap. The chest is here, and it contains a Daedalus Dust.
Daedalus Dusts allow you to warp out of an indoor area you are in and back outside. They only work in certain areas, which means you have to be careful where you use them. If it does work outside, you will likely return to the same spot.
In this case, save this one. You are going to need it for a quick and easy way out of this place.
Now head back east until you reach the door, or the southern wall opens up. Then head all the way south.
Follow the southern wall west, and then when it disappears, head south to find the door we came through to reach the Bed Chamber. Head back into the Great Hall.

Okay, that's all the rooms, besides the one we truly want to go for, which is on the western wall. With that being said, follow the northern wall west, and then when you reach the western wall, follow it south.
There will be a little lip in the western wall, so if you run into it, just step east once and then continue south.
Eventually you will run into the next door that leads west.
And so it begins!

_Pleasure Chamber
Manamon Available: Same as Great Hall
The clattering sounds you hear are benches. You will see lots of these in the game.
You will also hear a wind sound, almost like a vortex. This is a pit. You are going to want to save for this next part.
Have you saved? Good.
Head for the pit, and you will drop through.

_Lonar Pit
Oof, these lion manamon are really angry with you. But you have no choice but to fight them.

#Ghost Lonar
Type: Earth, Standard and Ghost
Lonar is the first transformation of a manamon known as Leonra, although you can not obtain it in Kiarre. That is a Tangerian manamon. However this one is slightly different.
Typically, Lonar is just Earth and Standard. But since it is a ghost, it's also Ghost type. Standard moves won't work on this thing.
A water or plant type should be good enough to take these two down. If you have an undead type, even better.

Oh, look who's back. It's the ghost again, here to visit!
Now it's gone. Oh well...
At first, when you walk around, it seems there is no way out. I actually also wondered how on earth I was going to get out when I first played.
Against the western wall is a hidden switch. Follow it either north or south, and keep pressing Enter, Space or C until you hear a crash.
Now there will be a new path open to the north. Find the northern wall, then head east. Ignore the first opening, that's a dead end. Instead, continue north until it is open space, and then head further north.
You will hear the familiar sound of a ladder. Head on up.

_Treasury
Manamon Available: Same as... okay you get the memo I think.
Head north through this area. There will be several gaps in the wall. You want the one that is up against the northern wall. Honestly, you can use any gap you wish, they don't necessarily lead to dead ends.
Once you are through, a path will be available to the south, so take it.
Yes, tamers. This one is the first.
Oh, he's a ghost hunter! Hello there. But he's a ghost hunter who also happens to be called... well, you'll see.

@Ghost Hunter Hunter
Torchin is level 19
Zinbat is level 19
Enjoy your paranormal research. Happy ghost hunting, my friend.

South of Hunter is another tamer. He has a joke in his name. It's obvious.

@Ghost Hunter Buster
Skelitten is level 20
It's okay. You don't have to say anything, we get it.

Honestly the tamer to the southwest is optional to fight, but in case you decide to do so, I've put it here.
This tamer has something to say about some loot that has been missed. Oh? Well guess what, we're taking it!

@Ghost Hunter Kathleen
Glarie is level 21
Oh no you won't!

South of Kathleen is a chest, containing 250 gold.
If you head around the chest so that it is in front of you, and then head east, a rare jewel is hidden. Perfect to sell and get extra items.
Okay. Assuming you fought Kathleen, head out of the gap, then head around it and go south to find the door leading out.

_Hallway
Immediately when you leave the treasury, you will be confronted by a nurse who tells you that the door in the bed chamber can be accessed through this hallway, which will then allow you to go and heal up or do other things in Shadow Canyon. However they are willing to heal you up immediatley if you win the battle.

@Nurse Callum
Hilimer is level 18
Torchin is level 20

Same manamon here, so will not put that at the top of this section.
Alright, that's done.
As the nurse said, the hallway south will take you out of the hallway into the bed chamber.
This also means that you no longer have to head down the pit, through the treasury, and into this hallway. The bed chamber door works now.
With that being said, if you need to go heal up, buy things from the market, etc, now is your chance.
In this hallway, there are two doors, one west and one east. Do not go to the west one, it is locked and you require a key.
This key is located behind the door to the east, so head east through the hallway. If you don't run into the door once you reach the eastern wall, simply walk north or south until you are aligned with it. Then, head through it.
If it helps, the west and east doors are lined up, so if you find the door to the west, simply walk directly east.

_Tearoom
Same manamon here, so will not put that at the top of this section. Oh wait, I just did. Nevermind.
Immediately when you walk in, you will be confronted by a tamer who says that they are a shadow, unless they want you to see them. Well, they seem pretty visible...

@Ninja Kid Shawn
Manja is level 20
Manja is level 20
Stealth can sometimes be beneficial.
Fun fact: If you do interact with him once more, he will vanish.

You will hear a table a bit southeast of Shawn's location. Interact with it to receive the Tower B Key. This is the key that will allow you to get through the locked door.
There is a tamer a bit to the right of the table that you can fight with optionally. If you do choose to fight the tamer, here is the battle.
Oh, sorry for breaking your concentration.
Or, not sorry. That was quite insulting.

@Ghost Hunter Friedrich
Spirost is level 22
Good luck with your research. Not sure why you are doing it here of all places, but hey. Do whatever you wish. And yes, the sarcasm was quite obvious.

There is nothing else in here, so head west and out the door.

Now, head west to the opposite door, and save before going inside.
Simply interact with the door, and you'll be asked if you want to unlock it or not. Hit Yes, and prepare for a fight.

_Tower B

A fight with spiders! And an instant one at that!

@Five Feral Gossolo
There are 5 of these, all of them being level 20. You will also bring out 5 manamon as a result.
Gossolo is an insect and sound type, so just keep that in mind. 
These will use the move sticky web quite frequently, which entraps the manamon it hits in a web. Whenever that manamon attacks, it will receive some backlash, so be careful. Combined with trample, they will be quite the annoying bunch.
Feedback Shock should not be too much of a problem, unless you have something that is vulnernable to sound type attacks. Whatever it is, do not have it as one of your 5 released manamon.
They also have the move Call to Arms, which will raise their strength and defense by a stage. The more they use it, the stronger and more protected they become, so rid of them quickly!

Once that fight is over, we are not quite finished. Heal up if necessary, and save yet again.
Start heading northwest, and this is when things really get interesting.
Remember that ghost that kept appearing randomly? Well, it resides in this very room!
Apparently this ghost doesn't know where it is. And since it doesn't really know that, it's going to rid of you, because for some odd reason it has to do with you.

@@Master Dyaz
Level: 21
This is probably one of the most annoying bosses to face in this game. This isn't necessarily a manamon, it's a ghost of an old man which can apparently use manamon moves. But here is what makes it so difficult.
Dyaz has the ability to switch to any type that is available on the manamon you have out.
You may be thinking, easy! I can just use a move that is effective against that type he switches to! Unfortunately, that is not possible.
You must use a move that is the same type he is, or else, simply put, the move will not affect him in the slightest.
He also has a move that he uses called Otherworld Abyss. If you only have one manamon left, it will completely obliterate the manamon, no matter what hit points it has. So whatever you do, you want to have at least 2 manamon alive.
Keep in mind that since this is a boss, most status effects will not work on it. If it notices stat changes which benefit you are greater than 2 stages, it will use holy smoke and reset them. For instance, you only want to use sharpen twice if that manamon has sharpen.
I wish you luck. This thing is a nuisance.
Once it is defeated, you will gain a significant amount of experience for your team.
Then, it will vanish. Bye bye, ghost.

There is a door immediately in front of you, but Dyaz was blocking it. Since he's gone now, you can head through.

_Lookout
This room contains a very important item, an Old Hammer. This will let you break rocks.
I haven't mentioned it yet, but if you did end up finding something in Shadow Canyon, it was a rock. You may have gotten a message saying it had to be broken. Well, this trusty hammer will do the job, and guess what? It is the way out of this wretched place!
Now head back out the door and into Tower B.

We're done here.
Remember that dust I told you to keep handy? Well, rather than having to go all the way back through the chamber, the great hall, and all the way out, just use it here, and you'll automatically be teleported outside of the castle.
If you didn't end up keeping it, well, just head south through the bed chamber, south some more until you find the door out of the chamber, then head all the way south to head out of the castle itself.
You can tell that I want to be out of here, just based on how I'm putting the instructions on one line. Keep in mind that when I'm writing this guide, I'm also playing along. So I also just had to fight Dyaz at the time of writing this paragraph.
Okay, that's enough about the castle.

_Back in Shadow Canyon
It's time to head out. If you need to make a stop at the market or the hotel, feel free. Otherwise, let's skedaddle.
South of the castle, simply put, is the way out. Find the southern wall, then follow it west. When it opens up, follow the new path south.
When you reach the next southern wall, follow it west, and you will hear a little rumbling sound. Hit Enter on it, and your hammer will destroy it. Then head south through the open gap.
You will eventually come across the exit, out of Shadow Canyon!
Before we leave, let's go check out the castle one more time.
Head north toward the gap we just came out of. Then head east. Then...
I'm kidding, I'm kidding. Let's go.

_Route Roshaw
Manamon Available: Roazah, , Leafowl, Murkit, Buppig, Rootle

#Roazah
Type: Plant and Poison
This thing is quite a deadly plant and poison type. I've used it a few times, and I can say that it is definitely hard to defeat if you don't have the right manamon to do so. It gets some pretty good poison and plant moves, and solar conversion which boosts its strength and defense, making it even more of a force to be rivaled with.
It eventually transforms into Thornita somewhere in the early 30s.

#Rootle
Type: Fighting
I have to say that this fighting type is quite overpowered, perhaps even rivaling excellent fighting types such as Fyste. It gets all elemental punches, same as Fyste, and it also has an ability which actually boosts its punches. Add a piece of equipment (referenced later) and you will have a heavy hitting boxing kangaroo on your team.
It also gets a move called spirit sight, which allows it to hit ghost types with its punches, as fighting does not effect ghost. That is also something to take advantage of.
This transforms twice, Kangard in the early 30s and Kangachan in the 40s or so.

Yup, immediately tamers to the east. But before we go there, let's take a quick detour.
Follow the western wall south, then when it opens up, travel through it west.
In this area you will find two items. One is a Daedalus Dust (explained earlier), and the other is a Sweet Tonic.
Don't bother going east. You can't quite head there yet, but you will be able to later.
Now retrace your steps so that you are standing in front of the entrance into Shadow Canyon. This time, head east, and prepare to fight legit tamers!
I mean to be fair, the ghost hunters were legit, I think. But regardless, it's good to be out in the daylight, fighting your regular old tamers, no matter how condescending or ridiculous they are at times.
The first one can tell that you've been in Shadow Canyon. Well duh, the entrance is like, right there...

@Cool Kid Louise
Fennebel is level 21
Owlaw is level 20
Owlaw is level 20
Yeah, embarrassment does that to your face.

Next tamer is apparently from the country. We're fighting country boys now!

@Country Boy Bill
Cowmoono is level 21
Ratsal is level 21
Well that's between you, and your father. Sorry dude. We cannot intervene.

Head north from Bill to find the northern wall, then travel east. Once the northern wall disappears, travel north to face another tamer.
You're joking, right? Shadow Canyon? Well, have fun...

@Sailor Tamika
Torto is level 22
Owlaw is level 22
Well, you are a water manamon user, so I guess that makes sense.

Head north a ways until the western wall disappears, then head west for more tamers.
Wow. Let's show her she's wrong about saying you'll lose to her.

@Country Woman Michelle
Oxenik is level 23
Hilimer is level 23
Yes, consider those superiority issues carefully, too.

West around Michelle, two tamers!
Suzanna is the daughter of Dwain it looks like, and this is going to be a 2 on 2 battle.

@Countryman Dwain and Country Girl Suzanna
Dwain's Murkit is level 23 and Suzanna's Rootle is level 22
Dwain's Feruddae is level 23 and Suzanna's Frolop is level 22
Suzanna's Leafowl is level 22
Well fought, you two. Well fought.

You will step onto a new surface, possibly concrete or cement. Walk north to be confronted by the next tamer.
Well that's one way to start a fight.

@Lad Teddy
Coaleer is level 24
Rucroom is level 23
Yeah, that failed...

East are more tamers, but let's take another detour to the west.
Head north of Teddy, and then when there is a gap in the western wall, take it.
In this area, a gap will appear in the northern wall. Find it, then head north to find a super encounter down.
Now head back south through the gap. From here, you don't have to retrace your steps. just head east until you find the eastern wall, then follow it north.
A gap will appear in the eastern wall. Take it east, and then when you reach the next eastern wall, follow it north to the next tamer.
It's a ninja! And he's providing some advice on having a strong connection to your manamon. Use it to win this battle.
Hint: Most ninjas in this game (yes, there are more), will use fighting or shadow types, sometimes even both. I'll leave it to you to figure out which types to use to defeat them.

@Ninja Kid Riku
Manja is level 25
Rootle is level 24
Nice work. You impressed him.

Don't head north quite yet. We are going to make another detour east.
Riku disappeared, but the way east is free, so head in that direction.
Keep going east until you reach the eastern wall. There should be a gap in it, so if you do not find it, you may need to go north or south.
In this gap, you will encounter another tamer. If you stick to the southern wall, you don't have to fight the tamer, but if you wish, feel free to go over.
If you choose to fight the tamer, here is the battle.
Man. I know how that feels.

@Gardener Seth
Roazah is level 23
Furivia is level 24
Wow, that's rude. And I actually felt sorry for you.

Now head all the way to the eastern wal. Nestled in the southeastern corner is a Dimbranch Club.

$Dimbranch Club
This is one of those pieces of equipment that actually gives a direct benefit to your manamon. In this case, it lets your manamon use the move batter branch as part of its list of available moves. It won't learn it, it will just have the ability to utilize it.
But look at the strength penalties. You get -5 in magic attack and +5 in strength. If your manamon of choice is more about physical attacks, by all means you can put this on that one. But just be cautious if you put it on a magic attack-based manamon.
Always remember that since batter branch is a plant type move, it will not deal the same amount of damage it would deal if it were being used by a plant type manamon. For example, it wouldn't be very efficient on an air type. With that being said, don't think that it's the club's fault. If you put this club on a plant type though, you are all set.

Alright, let's head back west. Get out of the gap with the tamer, then when you reach the western wall, travel south to find the gap west.
Head west through the gap, and then when you are able to go north, do so. You will hear tamers up ahead. Let's go!
Hmm. Ah, water. So refreshing. You know, you're not entirely wrong.

@Insect Collector Camden
Glarie is level 24
Metalarve is level 23

Take a step, like one or two steps, and you will almost instantly be confronted by the next tamer.
You look wimpy, apparently.

@Athlete Carmon
Buppig is level 23
Torchin is level 24

From here, head east, then take the gap that appears in the northern wall north. You will encounter another tamer.
How adorable. Another kindergartner.

@Kindergartner Fortuna
Groller is level 23
Mirron is level 23
Wizz is level 25
Enjoy your food, young tamer.

And that, was actually a hint too, when they said they were headed inside. The entrance into the next area is near here.
Before you head through, don't forget to grab the meganet a bit southeast of the entrance.
Now, let's go!

_Brytanburg Wilderness Front
You call Alozza, and give her a rundown of what happened at Shadow Canyon.
Well, it seems there are not only hyper manamon, there are also hyper forms. Good to know.
Apparently there are manamon sick near Mechamo City, according to some reports. That's bad.
So this isn't necessarily a city, but more like a wilderness entrance.
There is only one building in here, that being the mana hotel. And yes, it is a legit hotel this time. No random manamon running around. However there are two snarky people in there. One is disturbed by you interacting with them while trying to sleep, while the other says that they would work at this hotel if they were to work at one. Good choice, not many people here anyway.
There is also a person southeast of the hotel who lets you know about how weather works in manamon battles. I highly recommend interacting with them to get a good grasp of how it is beneficial or risky in battles.
In the northeastern corner of this area is a person who says they are rich, and gives you 300 gold. Interacting with them again makes them realize that they probably should not have given that much gold. However, there's no way to give it back, unless you saved before doing so. If you feel like the person deserves their gold, by all means, reload. Otherwise, it is yours.
Alright. There is nothing else here, so let's head north into the next area.

_Brytanburg Wilderness
Manamon Available: Ampheakub, Monoddo, Fennebel, Daggeetle, Thornub, Glarie, Gossolo

This wilderness is just terrible. For sure. And the music only makes it more obvious.
We won't be here for very long, though we will have to get a few things out of the way, and yes I mean physically speaking.
If you head north, you will immediately encounter a log. You cannot go here yet, but save this in your memory.
Do not head west just yet. There is a person who would like something from you first before you are able to pass. Instead, start going east.
There will be a wall to the east from the log. If there doesn't appear to be a gap there, head north or south to locate it. Then, head east through it.
When you reach the next eastern wall, head north until you find the northern wall. Take a few steps west along the northern wall, and a gap will open up to the north.
Head north through the gap, hugging the eastern wall as you go. When you are able to head east, do so, hugging the southern wall.
A gap will appear in the southern wall. Head south through it, until you reach the next southern wall, then travel along it east.
Once you find the eastern wall, travel along it north. Close to the northern wall will be a gap leading east. You want to find that gap and take it.
You will be sandwiched between walls to the north and south for a bit, then it will be open space.
You are probably hearing a wooshing sound, along with a person.
These are one of the puzzles in the game, in which you have a Quartantula blocking your path.
East of you are 5 webs, with trees holding them together from the north and south. Sometimes it will be in a different orientation, but that will be referenced in the situation where it occurs.
You do not need to play at the speed Quartantula plays at. You just need to play the notes in the right order.
To see what note a web is, you can use Control plus Enter, Space or C to hear the note, without triggering it for Quartantula to hear. Otherwise just press them without holding down Control.
If you have already played a sequence of notes and you go to interact with Quartantula again, your progress will reset. Only do this if you forget.
I will include the sequence of notes for those who would rather reference them from the guide rather than Quartantula, though it is always a good rule of thumb to try it yourself first.
The sequence is web 1, web 2, and web 5. Web 1 is the first one on the left, web 2 is right next to it, and then web 5 is the final web all the way to the right.
If you did it right, Quartantula will run off and the path will be clear.
In the eastern wall will be the gap Quartantula was standing. Head through it until it is open space again, and then continue east to reach the first tamer.
Crystal the explorer! Terrible joke, I know. But this isn't necessarily all that beautiful if the drought is in effect.

@Explorer Crystal
Vipesla is level 25
Vipesla is level 25
Sorry to ruin your day. The Crystal joke probably didn't really help matters either.

In the northeastern corner is a Mighty Herb. Make sure to grab it, it heals by 120 hit points.
From the place you got that herb, just head south to find the next tamer.
No, I don't think we have met either.

@Genius Carly
Ampheakub is level 25
Pythor is level 24
Leafowl is level 24
Oh. Bye, nice meeting you I guess.
And yes, she does actually vanish.

Head south until you reach the southern wall, then head east. There will eventually be a gap in the northern wall, so take it.
On the way north, be sure to snag the Paralysis Vaccine against the eastern wall. Then head north for the next tamer.
You're not built for the outdoors? Then why are you here...
Also, videogames are bad for you! Research shows that videogames... okay just kidding. I won't go there.

@Lad Elmer
Chillardent is level 26
Ouch. Direct insult to your manamon. Also real manamon fights are more fun in my opinion.

The item we need is really close. When the way to the east is clear, head east to find the next eastern wall. Travel north along it, then when you reach the northern wall, take a step west.
Travel north through the gap, and hug the western wall. Immediately when the western path is clear, the item will be there. It is some Mystic Honey, which the person wanted you to find.
This is pretty much optional, but if you head further west, you will encounter another tamer.
This one is running through the area to get some exercise. Nice work.

@Programmer Archy
Monoddo is level 24
Shadyena is level 25
Have fun!

You don't actually have to head back the way you came just now. Instead, just head to the western wall and follow it south, and you will reach Elmer. 
From Elmer, head south to the southern wall, then folow it west all the way. When you reach the western wall, head north until the wall disappears, then continue west.
Keep to the southern wall, and when it disappears, head south.
You are now back at the music puzzle. Head past the webs to the west, and then when you reach the western wall, find a gap that will allow you to proceed further west.
When you are through the gap, head north through the gap in the northern wall, until you reach dirt. Then head west. There is a wall to the south for guidance, if you want to use that.
When the southern wall disappears, head south, and you pretty much will be in the general area of the log and the exit into the Wilderness Front.
If you need to heal up, you can do so at the hotel. Otherwise, we are headed to the opposite side now.
There will be a gap in the western wall from the log. Head through it, and then find the next wall to the west. That wall will also have a gap in it, so continue west through it.
Hug the northern wall while traveling west. When it disappears, head north. Be sure to grab the Herb against the eastern wall.
You will hear an individual north of you. That is the person you will give the honey to.
If you have it, you will be able to travel north or south across the water in front of you (in this case a river) if you wish. We want to cross north.
If you are on either side, he will be there, so no worries about being trapped once you go through.
Interact with him once more, and when he asks, select Yes. You will be dropped off on the opposite side.
From the drop off point. Head to the eastern wall, then travel north. When the wall disappears, travel east, until you reach the next eastern wall.
Stepping forward will be another musical puzzle, but this time it will be arranged north to south, with the lowest note being the one all the way south and the highest note being the one all the way north. Quartantula awaits you to the north, so interact with him for the sequence.
This one is easy. It's just all 5 webs, starting from the south and then heading all the way to the north. So click on all of them in that order.
Once Quartantula is gone, head north through the gap, where a tamer awaits your arrival.
Oh, another one of those insect collectors. Goodness, the lot of you!

@Insect Collector Calley
Bombusect is level 25
Pyrefly is level 25
Centiplex is level 24
Sure, sure. That's what they all say.

Head north a bit, and then make your way west. There will be a gap in the western wall, so take it a quarter of the way west, as there will be a gap in the northern wall.
Head north through the gap, and then when it is open space, aim for the eastern wall. Travel along the eastern wall north, and a gap will appear in it, so continue east through it.
Eventually a gap will appear in the northern wall, so head north through it.
There will be a rock west, so you must break it with your hammer by pressing Enter, Space or C. When it is gone, you are able to head north.
Another musical puzzle. This is also arranged south to north, web 1 being all the way south and web 5 being all the way north. Quartantula is to the north.
As promised, here is the sequence.
The sequence is web 3 2 times, web 1, web 5.
Once Quartantula is gone, head north through the gap he was blocking, hugging the eastern wall. When it is gone, head east, and you will encounter the next tamer.
Quite the compliment there, ma'am.

@Country Woman Francine
Electrist is level 27
Not sure if that was sarcasm or a general statement.

Head east of Francine, and then head slightly south until a gap in the eastern wall appears. Continue east through it, and then when a gap in the northern wall appears, head north through it.
The gap is quite a short one, so when you take a few steps, a gap in the eastern wall will be available to head east through.
Continue east until a gap in the southern wall appears, and take it 	south until you reach the next southern wall. Follow it east, and you will hear a chest. Open it to find a crowbar, which is what you will need to move that log near the Wilderness Front.
Now head back west until you find the western wall, then follow it north. When a gap in the western wall opens, head west through it.
Hug the southern wall, and you will eventually reach a gap in it. Head through the gap, and then head south a little ways until you are able to head west.
When you reach the western wall, head north. You will have to move around the tamer, and find the northern wall, then head west, as the gap is in front of the tamer. It is similar to what the tutorial said about tamers standing next to gaps.
When a gap appears south of you, head south through it, and you will be back at the puzzle. Continue south past the puzzle, and all the other gaps, but be sure to be near the eastern wall to make things easier. However you may have to find a gap in the southern wall to continue all the way south.
When you reach the southern wall, head east, as there will be a gap in the eastern wall now.
Head east slightly so that there is nothing to the south, but stick to the eastern wall. Then proceed south.
When you reach the next southern wall, start to follow it west. When you are able to go south, do so, until you find the next wall to the south.
Follow it west until it opens up again, then head south for awhile until you find another wall to the south.
Follow the next one east, and you will hear one of the tamers we fought, specifically the insect collector. Head around them south, and continue south past the music puzzle.
Once you are past the puzzle, keep to the southern wall, and head west until it disappears. Proceed south, and you will find the person willing to take you across the river. This time, interacting with him and choosing Yes will take you back to the other side.
Now that you are south of the river again, continue south, and keep to the eastern wall. When you are able to head east, do so, then shortly after, head north after taking a few steps east.
Once you reach the northern wall, head east, and you will hear the log.
If you need to go heal up at the hotel, you can, south of the log.
Now position yourself so that the log is to your west, and hit Enter, Space or C to move it to the left about two times to expose a gap in the northern wall, which you should head through.
If the western wall drifts away slightly, simply head west a little bit to keep it close.
There is a chest against the western wall, which contains an Ultra Encounter Down, the strongest one in the game which lasts 800 steps.
Once you reach the northern wall, there is a gap in the northeastern section, so take it.
And there is another musical puzzle! Except this time... well, let's just say the manamon blocking it isn't so friendly.
It's also south to north, so web 1 south and web 5 north.
This one wants you to play 5 notes. Here they are.
Web 4 two times, web 2, web 1, web 5.
And it decides not to move!
Now is the perfect time to save, as this is going to be fun.
Head toward the manamon and interact with it.
This is a Symphonid, the final transformation of Quartantula. But it isn't just any Symphonid.

@@Hyper Symphonid
Level: 25
This Hyper Symphonid lets you land moves which are effective against sound and insect types, however there is a catch.
This Symphonid spins webs, which dictate which type of attacks should be landed on it. Using the incorrect type of attack will cause the web to snap, and instantly kill the manamon that used the incorrect attack.
If it spins a red web, it means that any attack you land on it must be a Special attack. Pay close attention to the move set of the manamon you are using to attack it, and be sure that the move says that it is a special one. This is usually spoken right after the name of the move.
If it spins a white web, it means you must use physical attacks. Same applies, check that the move you are using is physical.
Remember, since this is a hyper manamon, it is harder to kill, and its attacks are way stronger. Be really careful of one of its strongest moves, which is Attack Concerto. It deals really significant damage, especially if you have a manamon who is not resistant to sound type attacks.
Be careful, and I wish you luck!

Once you have that thing out of the way, you can finally proceed north. If you run into the northern wall, head west a little bit, then continue north.
Quick detour. Once the western wall disappears, head west, and when you reach the western wall, follow it north. Open the chest near the western wall, it has 3 total cures.
Hug the eastern wall and head back south. When you are able to go east, do so, and stick to the northern wall.
When you are able to go north, do so, and then...
Why look who it is! It's Eshcon!
Well, your request is to make it rain, so he shall bring forth the rain.
Anyways, it is a straight shot into the city, so let's head inside.

_Brytanburg West
A big note before you continue reading.
If you are playing the demo version of Manamon 2, this is where things sort of end. That being said, you won't be able to battle the stadium leader here, as well as a few other limitations that will come up in a second.
One thing I love about this city, is it is divided into sections by exits.
The western portion, which we are in now, contains a few buildings that are quite important. We will explore them, then we will go and explore the north and southern portions, which are divided by a little central area.
The building north of the wilderness is the hospital.

_Brytanburg Hospital
This is a pretty big hospital, but it has some items in it that you can obtain. Yes, we are going to steal from a hospital.
If you head to the eastern wall and travel north, you will eventually come across a hidden U P Restorative. To find it, simply press your interactive key frequently.
Now travel west against the northern wall. When you reach the western wall, you will have to go around an employee, then travel west into a corridor.
You will begin to hear doors. They are patient rooms, so they are not unlocked.
You will find a Scorch Ointment somewhere in the middle of the corridor, and then all the way in the northwest corner is a chest containing 2 Medical Miracles.
Now head east back through the corridor, and then you will be back on marble flooring. From there, head back south and out of the door.

Now that you are out of the hospital, head around it to the east, then follow its eastern wall north.
You will encounter another building, but the door will be slightly west, so take a step or two west so you are able to head inside.

_Brytanburg's Mana Hotel
Besides the communications person in the northeastern section, this place is quite empty. With that being said, you can heal up, use the transportal, and be on your way.

There is a building to the right of the hotel, but don't aim for that quite yet. Instead, stay about a few steps from the eastern wall, and travel south. You will eventually hear a door to your left. This is a house, so go through it.

_Memory Tutor's House
In this house, you can loan one of your manamon to the person to regain lost moves for 3000 gold. These are usually moves which you had to replace when you only had room for 5, or you decided not to learn them at all.
However, this is also good for feral manamon you have caught, which probably did not have the greatest move set upon catching it.
My advice is to go through each manamon and see which moves could benefit them better. When you select a manamon and then pick a move it used to have before, the same screen that pops up when it tells you your manamon is able to learn a certain move will pop up here as well.
When you are done here, feel free to leave.

Now head north of the house until you hear chimes to the east. Head through.

_Brytanburg Central
Oh, it's a hospital employee! How dare you bump into them!
Oh, it's okay. She was rushing, not you.
Greet Mercilla with respect, and she will give you a pocket copter.
The pocket copter allows you to visit any areas you have been to before, assuming they have some sort of hotel or healing spot.
NOTE: The pocket copter does not work if you are playing the demo version.
Your pocket copter will be in the Other category. What I usually do to have quick access to my copter is I set it as a quick item.
To do this, open your Inventory, then find the Other category. Select the pocket copter from the list, and then select set as quick item.
You will be asked for which slot you want to assign the quick item to. This is based off of your number row, so slot 0 would be pressing the 0 key.
It is up to you to decide which slot you want the pocket copter in. I personally set it to slot 1 so that I can quickly access it.
Now when you press the number in the game without being in your inventory, it will say the name. Then, use your interaction key to officially use it.
NOTE: This also applies to any other item you want to set as a quick item, not just the pocket copter.
In the pocket copter menu will be all the places you have visited in the past. No more walking between cities or locations anymore, you can simply fly to them.
When you fly to a location, you will be placed immediately in front of the door of the hotel or healing spot. Also, feel free to take advantage of the pocket copter to go visit other marketplaces that may have equipment that you require.
You are not able to fly a pocket copter indoors in Manamon 2. In Manamon 1 you could though, which was quite interesting.
Alright. With that out of the way, this central section has four exits.
The first one is the one we just came through. That is Brytanburg West. However, we also have Brytanburg North, Brytanburg East, and Brytanburg South in their respective directions.
Brytanburg East and South are currently blocked off. Eshcon is in Brytanburg East and apparently there is an accident at the entrance of Brytanburg South.
With that being said, let's first visit Brytanburg North.
Head north all the way through this central area. There is nothing in it, don't worry.
You will eventually hear chimes leading north. That is the exit you want. Onward!

_Brytanburg North
In the northern section of Brytanburg, slightly west of the exit, is the most important building, that being the stadium.
NOTE: For those playing the demo version, you can fight all the tamers in the stadium. However, you may not fight the stadium leader. I would hold off on fighting the tamers and the stadium leader until you have registered the game.
Near the stadium, almost parallel to it, is a cafe. We are not going to go here quite yet, but keep it at the back of your mind.
If you follow the western side of the stadium north, you will reach another building. Head inside.

_Brytanburg Superstore
This superstore will be the largest place to purchase or sell items in the game, so take advantage of it.
For now, there is only one seller, but that will change in the future, as you may encounter an elevator in the northwestern section that is not able to be used quite yet, as the superstore is being renovated.
The seller has a few additional items to sell here, unlike other marketplaces.
For one, there are now mighty herbs. This means that soon, you will be saying goodbye to strong herbs, however you can still keep them if you want a little boost on health if your manamon isn't significantly damaged.
For two, there are now ultra encounter downs available here. They are quite useful for cramped areas such as caves or tunnels, so feel free to buy a few.
Finally, the seller also offers total cures. Feel free to buy some of those too.
There are newer pieces of equipment here too.

$Broomstick
Probably one of my most favorite pieces of equipment in the game, and no penalties whatsoever. This makes any manamon you put this on immune to earth type attacks. If you have an electric or flame type, for example, you may consider equipping it on one of them.

$Sacred Staff
This staff is quite a mix of enhancements and penalties. By reading the description, you can see it boosts holy attacks, but it screws up your magic attack, gives you 10 strength, and basically makes you more vulnerable to magic type attacks.
I don't really consider buying this one, though it is totally up to you. I usually steer clear of it, however.

$Slingshot Blaster
Another one of those pieces of equipment where the description doesn't specify what is decreased. Quite sneaky.
Although this gives the manamon you equip this on the move rock barrage, it also decreases its defense by 5. Just keep that in mind when utilizing it. It's not a severe penalty, however.

$Rapid Cloak
This piece is quite a nice one, though pay attention to how much penalties are involved. The attack (both physical and magic) and defense (both physical and magic) receive pretty bad penalties. Put this on a frail manamon and it would probably crumple faster than you could say manamon.
The price of 11000 gold makes it even more of a risky thing to buy. If you really want to go for it, you can. But I usually avoid it.
Hint: Doving/Colovaird may benefit from it.

Okay, that is pretty much all that is here for now. Let's head out.

Let's go ahead and challenge the Brytanburg Stadium.
Remember, the stadium is a bit northwest from the exit leading into Brytanburg Central.

_Brytanburg Stadium
Type: Plant
In this stadium is a puzzle in which you must rid of the weeds and do not pick the flowers.
Interacting with the person near the door will give you the sounds that signify a flower and the weeds.
Alright, let's start pulling those weeds!
Since this relies purely on sound, I am sorry to say that I cannot really assist all that much, but I will try my best.
Most of the weeds in this first one are sort of in the middle, while some are on the west and eastern side. There is a lone one just hanging out on the eastern wall in one of the spots, so be sure to get that one, as it is easy to miss sometimes.
If you did it correctly, the tamer will notice you. Otherwise interacting with the tamer will make them alert you that you need to finish weeding the garden.
Oh, we'll take your job all right!

@Gardener Felicity
Roazah is level 27
Limtoroom is level 26
You should take that as a compliment.

Continue north and there will eventually be open space. Just keep heading north and you will approach the next garden.
The first weed is sort of in the middle. There is also a stray one against the eastern wall, and there is another one a bit southwest of of the next tamer.
Well isn't that jus reassuring!

@Gardener Manda
Sapple is level 24
Sapple is level 24
Sprucel is level 27
NOTE: For context, Sprucel is the transformation of Sapple 
Well, you chose to fight. Fix your dress.

Continue north to find the next tamer. No weeding this time.
You have a cold? You shouldn't be here then!

@Country Boy Cletus
Leafowl is level 27
Leafowl is level 27
Furivia is level 27
Good idea. Hope you feel better.

Continue north until it is open space, then start heading west for the next garden.
The southern wall immediatley has a weed, that being the only one.
Now stay against the western wall and travel south, maneuvering around the flowers in the way. When you reach the southern wall, take a step or two east for a new gap, then head a bit south for the next tamer.
That sounds like a great dream!

@Athlete Garry
Calculade is level 29
Good luck.

The next garden is immediately south. Upon reaching it, the first row is just a major pile of weeds, so get rid of those.
When you reach the southern wall, take a step or two west, then take a few steps south for the next tamer.
Good information. It's one way to make a living.

@Athlete Anders
Limtoroom is level 27
Limtoroom is level 27
I don't blame you. I wish you luck.

The next tamer is a few steps south from Anders.
Nice necklace.

@Country Woman Shawn
Sprucel is level 28
Roazah is level 28
Oof, that sucks that your necklace broke.

Continue past Shawn to the south, and there will be a gap in the next southern wall. Take it to find the next garden.
There is a weed against the western wall.
Now travel south to the next tamer.
I guess you are considered among the cool folk.

@Country Girl Jessa
Furivia is level 28
Calculade is level 27
Leafowl is level 27
Yeah it does sort of seem like outside, with all this grass and dirt.

Head past Jessa, and by the eastern wall will be another stray weed.
Make your way south, and there should be a gap in the southern wall. Take it, and then when you reach the next southern wall, there will be another gap leading south.
When you go through that gap, up against the northern wall to the west is a weed. Pick it, and continue south.
There should be yet another gap in the southern wall. Take it.
This is another garden.
Near the eastern wall, not totally against it, is a weed.
And now, it is time to battle the stadium leader herself. And trust me, she puts up quite a fight.

@@Stadium Leader Roseanne
Hydrake is level 28 with a long Wand equipped
Plumirage is level 30 with a Willow Hammer equipped
Treezon is level 32
Thornita is level 32 with a Berserk Club equipped
Hydrake is one you have probably not seen before. It is a plant and water type, making it hard to get rid of. I managed to beat it with an air type though, so if you have one, take advantage of it. Flame types will not be the best, it has water moves so don't bother.
Plumirage is a bit of a difficult one. Since it has a willow hammer, which boosts plant attacks, it's going to be a bit of a problem. However, the hammer's downside is that it makes the manamon weaker to flame type attacks. That being said, use a flame type if you have one, and you should be able to defeat it.
Treezon is a plant and poison type (see above on how to get it) and it doesn't have anything equipped. This is because it already comes with some pretty deadly moves, nature smash being one of them. The more it uses it, the stronger the move. This only applies if it hits 3 times, meaning if it misses, it resets to its default amount of damage.
Thornita is the transformation of Roazah, also a plant and poison type. Be careful, because it does come with some pretty deadly poison moves. If you have an ice, flame or air type, take advantage of it. Don't use an insect type, it'll wreck it. Watch out, it has a berserk club equipped, so just like Plumirage, it's going to be a bit of a challenge.
Anyways, I wish you luck.
Once you are done, you will get the crop key (congrats on the third stadium), and a nice little piece of equipment called a Root Point. This boosts attacks that drain health by 50 percent, with zero penalties. If you have a manamon that does a lot of health draining, such as a Roazah or its transformation Thornita, take advantage of this.

Alright! That's 3 stadiums down!
Now that we are done here, let's head back.
If you position yourself so that Roseanne is on your right, simply head north until you reach the northern wall. Once there, follow it east, and another gap will open up in the northern wall. Take it north.
Once you reach the next northern wall, head west just a little bit, and another gap in the northern wall will present itself. Continue through it, ignoring the occasional gaps that open up to the west and east.
Another wall to the north will come up. Simmply follow it west until you bump into the western wall, then continue north through the opening. You will have to veer around a flower, so simply step east and continue north undisturbed.
You will eventually hear a wall to your right. Step north once, then follow it east so that it becomes a wall to the south. A gap will open up in it, so start heading south once you find it.
Ignore the gaps on both sides, just continue south. Once you reach the next southern wall, head west a ways to find another gap in the southern wall. Take it south. You may have to veer around some flowers.
Finally, find the door and head out. We're done.

Actually? Not quite yet.
Interviewers are here! And it looks like they are interested in asking you some questions.
You'll be given a prompt. Pick whatever you deem appropriate, the responses will be varied but they won't affect anything in the storyline.
But it also looks like they want to have a battle. Whether you choose okay or no, it's still on!
NOTE: 2 ON 2.

@Interviewers Kent and Brock
Kent's Cofena is level 30 and Brock's Cofena is level 30
Cofena is a magic type manamon that has a mix of steel and magic moves. Be careful.
When you have dealt with both, they both say what a story.

Yes, you just got your ass kicked by a tamer. Or if you want to use Brock's terminology, "schooled."
After this strange predicament, both of them dash off, probably to put it on the news or something, who knows. Anyways, none of our business.
You can choose to heal up at the hotel, and/or can go check out the cafeteria to the right, where you will hear piano music.

%Message about the upcoming sections
For those who have already played Manamon 2, people have mixed feelings about the characters coming up next. That being said, I'm going to attempt to be very unbiased in these next few events, as I honestly do not want to deal with any of the criticism I may get for my own opinions. This guide is to help you get from point A to point B. I'm not going to dwell on these characters too much.
I hope you understand.
Now that that is out of the way, onward.

_Xila Cafe
Oh my, that sudden piano slam was quite concerning.
The young woman's name is Sangora, and she works at the cafe to entertain customers.
She seems to have some speech problems, but attempts to pry for information are useless, so that's out of the picture.
No, she does not want to be walked home. Alright.
So the game actually moves you to a bench a bit east of the door. That being said, head west a ways to find it, then head out.

Before we finish with Brytanburg North, there is a place we can check out real quick.
Head all the way north, until you hear an entrance. This map is pretty limited for now, but you will be able to do more in it way later in the game.

_Thunder Prairie
Manamon Available: Unicloud, Feruddae, Calculade, Friggle
For now, you can't really do a whole lot here. You can use this as a sort of training ground, or if you are up for it, you can catch a manamon and grind it up to the late twenties. It's totally up to you.
However, something is odd about a particulare tree...

_Back in Brytanburg
Alright. There are a few more things we can do here before heading out.
If you head south out of Brytanburg North, you will run into...
Crisselle the troublemaker!
She's here to show you a special spot.
Previously, a person was blocking this building, but now it is free.

_Music Hall
I put this as a significant area, because you can actually get some really useful rewards here for playing.
If you have ever played games like Rhythm Heaven, Rhythm Rage, Sequence Storm, Beatstar, etc, this music hall is just like that.
Simply head north to the person that awaits your arrival, and you will be presented with a list of games to play.
Each game has its own tutorial, so I won't document those here. Just like Rhythm Heaven or Rhythm Rage, you will eventually reach what is called a remix, in which all the games you have played within that category are assembled into one challenge. Manamon has two categories for games.
Alright. Feel free to play what you wish, or head out using the door to the south.
HINT: Something transforms here, under the right circumstances. It's an insect.

_Back in Brytanburg
Now that Crisselle is no longer going to intercept you, and the accident has been dealt with, you can head into Brytanburg South. Simply cross over from the north to the southern side.

_Brytanburg South
In Brytanburg South, there are quite a few things you can do. For one, this is the way out of Brytanburg, and for two, you can unveil quite a lot here.
Before we skidaddle out of this city, let's check them out, shall we?
Head south a ways. Eventually you will want to veer west a bit, and you will hear a wall of a building. Follow it south, then when it disappears, start going west so that it is in front of you. Head through the door.

_YGC Shop
Players of Manamon 1 may remember this as the arcade, but in Manamon 2, it is quite different.
As soon as you walk in, you are greeted by a person, probably the shopkeeper. They explain that the YGC is a gaming console.
Throughout the game, you may find disks. These disks can be inserted into the YGC to be played.
Unlike Manamon 1 where there was this massive arcade full of games, you find a disk and use it in the YGC anywhere you want. Pretty nifty!
However, you will have to come back to the YGC Shop to redeem credits or buy tokens. You can do it with the shopkeeper, who is a bit northwest of the door.
In the southwestern corner, you will find another person who explains that YGC stands for the Yavin Game Console, and that he is a genius boy from Tangeria. Manamon 1 players will know who Yavin is.
Also, there just so happens to be a free game disk here that you can casually go grab. It is on the western side, near the wall. Just interact with it like you would any other object, Enter, space or C. The game is Hangmon, which is Manamon's version of Hangman. Only difference is that a random manamon is hanging.
To select a game to play, open your inventory, head to the Other Items category, then select the game console. If you select Use, it will display the list of games you have. Hangmon should be in there.
Alright, that's about all we will find in this shop. Let's head back out.

_Back in Brytanburg South
If you head south of the YGC shop, you will come to another building to the south. Follow it all the way around, either by going east or west, then head south so that it is in front of you.

This is a house. And there is a person who you can interact with more than once. They think you are some sort of cop.
The more you interact with them, the more agitated they get. Eventually, they give in, and they tell you a nice secret about a symbol carved into a tree. Can you guess where that is?
. . . Spoiler. It is in Thunder Prairy, under the tree with the symbol carved into it. In order to get under, you will need a manamon with the move tunnel. Hilimer gets tunnel pretty early, and you can find it in Struttal Cave. Train it until it gets tunnel, then tunnel under the tree. You will find some pretty bad ass stuff down there, one of them being an item detector, which lets you detect hidden items when used within a short radius! Pretty cool! You also get some jewels, and a hefty pile of gold.
Okay, enough harassing. We have made a fool of ourselves! And I have instructed this ridiculous act; Blame me!

So I'm guessing this is like, Manamon's version of the south side. Scattered throughout Brytanburg South are some thieves you can battle. They are optional, but that's only if you give them a wide birth. Otherwise, you are facing off with them. One of the thieves just so happens to be to the west of the house we just emerged from. And even better, a person to the north confirms; This is the bad side.
If you choose to fight the thieves, I have included the battles below.

Don't mess around in my city? Is that really the best threat you could come up with?
@Thief Jimmy
Shadyena is level 30
A worthy new kid on the block. That sounds like sarcasm.

A fair distance southeast of Jimmy is another one who has this idea that the names people call her would make your poor little suburban head spin. Let's make hers spin at the fact that she's about to lose.
@Thief Kendra
Trumer is level 29
Pythor is level 30
I respect that? That's your response? Okay then. Guess that's all she could say, must have spun her head pretty good.

Okay, I think that's all the thieves. Let's head out.
If you need to stock up on anything, feel free. Otherwise, if you are not there already, head to Brytanburg South.
Follow the western wall. Eventually you will hear a gate. Goodbye to Brytanburg for now, let's head through!

_Dyeur Hills
Manamon Available: None Yet
Well well well. If it isn't Oghma, yet again! Looks like it's time for yet another friendly fight. Let's go!

@Oghma
Castwire is level 29
Pyrefly is level 30
Kubineral is level 29
Castwire is just the transformation of Metalarve. A few more moves up its sleeve, so just be careful.
Notice that Oghma has one extra manamon with him this time. This is Pyrefly, the evolution of Glarie. Be careful, this thing is not one to be trifled with. It has flame, ghost, undead and insect moves.
Kubineral hasn't really undergone significant changes, besides its higher level, so taking it down should not be a problem. Do know that it does have two barriers, one to half physical attacks and one to half magical attacks. If both are put up, your attacks are going to be relatively weak.
You and Oghma just standing there. Yeah, looks like this place isn't very good either. But hey, what can we do?

Manamon Available: Kewin, Owlex, Chillardent, 

Not too far from the gate, you will encounter an item. Head west to snag an antidote.
From the gate, head west a ways. Ignore the first southern gap, and head west a bit further until you reach the second one.
Start heading south, and wow. First tamer already!
This one is commenting on how the feral manamon around here aren't looking so good. Yeah, agreed.

@Guitarist Jude
Sullorb is level 29
Squarpha is level 29
How unfortunate. Hopefully you will win more battles in the future.

Move around Jude to the east, then head in that direction. Use the northern wall for guidance, and when you reach the next eastern wall, follow it south.
It will end abruptly, so head east onto a dirt-like surface. When you reach the next eastern wall, head south along it. You will start to hear the next tamer.

Narcissistic personality disorder? And battling is the only treatment? Okay then...

@Genius Emily
Lantlare is level 30
Friggle is level 30
Well, I guess the level of narcissisticness is not as high. Is that even a word? Well it is now...

Head a bit south from Emily (ignore the little gap in the corner), then head west, following the southern wall. Once it disappears, head south and follow it, it will now be a wall to the east.
You will reach another wall to the south. Follow it west, and a gap will open up to the north. Take it, and prepare to face yet another tamer.
Sorry your manamon were not feeling good. I hope they recover swiftly. In the meantime, let's battle your other ones.

@Lady Dyanna
Groller is level 30
Refloron is level 29
Miterosier is level 28
Aaand I don't feel bad anymore.

Alright, we're going to make a bit of a detour here, just to get these out of the way.
Detour 1. Head north, and once you are against the northern wall head west. You will start to hear an item to the west, it's a treasure chest key.
Detour 2. Alright, now head back east, around Dyanna, but this time continue east.
Detour 3. Continue north past that person with the hint, until you reach the northern wall, then follow it west. Once the wall disappears, head north, and you will start to hear another person. There are definitely strange things going on here. Yet another hint for you to unravel.
Alright, retrace time! Head south, and when you hear the eastern wall disappear, take it east. The south will eventually open up. There are actually two openings here. One takes you to the tamer who wants to beat the, mean kid, and the other is where we want to go. So take the opening that doesn't have that person.
Before being sandwiched between the two walls, head north to the next gap, and snag 1000 gold. Then, head back south until you reach the southern wall, and continue west.
Eventually you will be sandwiched between two walls, but continue west anyway.
Once the northern wall opens up, head north, and stick to the eastern wall. You will eventually reach the northern wall, so follow it west, and you will start to hear another tamer.
Well look who's being optimistic. Not that I am judging or anything.

@Guitarist Aaron
Schemu is level 29
Zebbabern is level 28
Colovaird is level 30
Still positive. Like it! Unlike some other tamers who get angry.
If you click on him again, it actually says, and I quote, "I'm not too good with running and exploring, but that doesn't stop me from trying." He's persisitent, I can tlel you that.

Ignore that strange buzzy sound ahead of you. That's going to be important later.
Instead, head a ways south, then follow the wall west. Ignore the gap, that's just another gap to the, noise. Follow the western wall south.
A gap will open up in the western wall, so go ahead and head west. Another gap will present itself in the northern wall, so head through and stick to the eastern wall.
You will reach yet another wall to the north, so go ahead and follow it west, You will start to hear another tamer, but it is actually situated on the other side of the wall, so continue west regardless.
Once a gap in the northern wall presents itself, head through, and stick to the eastern wall for guidance. Continue north, and you will now be on grass.
You will reach another wall to the north, so go ahead and follow it west. Once you find the western wall, take a few steps south, and a gap will present itself in the western wall. Head through it.
Following the wall west, you will hear another tamer.
This tamer is following a suspicious Kewin. Not sure why battling is all of a sudden necessary to find said Kewin but, here we go I suppose.

@Detective Donald
Evillion is level 30
Bombusect is level 30
Hey, that's your fault. Next time, watch the Kewin instead of battling tamers.

Continue heading north past... oh wait. He actually made a logical decision and went after the suspect, so he's not even there! Nice! Anyways, keep to the eastern wall, and get ready to face another tamer.
Yeah, I feel bad for them too.

@Lad Rusty
Wolfsyre is level 30
Kangard is level 30
Kangard is level 30
Me too man, me too.

Alright, let's go for a quick detour.
Take a step or two north, then start heading east, sticking to the southern wall. Once you reach the eastenr wall, follow it north.
A gap will open up in the eastern wall, so take it. At the end of the small space is a giganet.
Now retrace your steps back to Rusty. This time, head to the western wall and follow it north until you reach the northern wall. Take a few steps east to find another gap, and continue north through it.
Once you reach the next northern wall, head east to the eastern wall, then head south a ways. A gap will open up to the east, so go ahead and take it.
Eventually the north will be open again, so go ahead and head north. You will reach another wall to the north, so follow it east as well.
Head east along the wall, and when you can go north, do so. Ah, finally! Concrete! Or is this cement? I don't know. Anyways, head north. The platform will change yet again. Finally, new platforms! When you reach the northern wall, head east.
You will be traveling east for quite a bit, but once you reach the eastern wall, head south. A gap will open up to the east, so continue your trek east.
The path will start to zigzag, so follow it. Once you reach the end, guess what? More tamers!
Two friends, two on two battle! Let's do this!

@Country Boys Tom and Tod
Tom's Shadyena is level 30 and Tod's Bearran is level 30
Tom's Wolfsyre is level 31 and Tod's Bearnace is level 31
Ah, the classic argument between friends. Figure it out you two.
Oh, they do in fact go away. I guess they went to go figure it out.

Take a few steps east, and then there will be open space. Head north until you reach the northern wall, and then head east along it.
Once the wall opens up, head north again. Stick to the eastern wall, as a gap will open up. Once you find it, go ahead and take it east.
After awhile, a gap in the northern wall will present itself, so go ahead and head north. You will start to hear a chest. Open it to get a fairy suit.

$Fairy Suit
Everything is in the description. This does lessen your manamon's damage taken from magic attacks, though it also increases the damage dealt to your manamon in terms of dragon type attacks.
Put it on who you wish, though be mindful of the pro and con.

Head south from the chest and a gap in the eastern wall will appear. Take it east, being sure to snag the 150 gold on your way.
You will be heading east for quite awhile, but eventually you will be able to go south, so go ahead and head in that direction.
You will now be in a wide open area. There is an item on the north side, which is a super encounter down, so grab it.
Now, head east, and would you look at that! We've gotten through Dyeur Hills! Head through the gate, and we'll be at our next city.

_Mechamo City
This city is very strangely laid out. But I'll try my best to explain it. Let's go from south to north.
Heading east from the gate, and follow the northern wall. When a gap opens up in the wall, head through. You will start to hear a door.
Do not, and I repeat, do, not, head in there yet, if you have not healed. You will see why later.
Instead, head south so you are against the southern wall, and when travel east. When you are able to, head south, do so.
Eventually you will reach open space. Go ahead and head west, we'll go east later since there are some things you might like to the west. Find the door into the first building and head in.

_Equipment Engineer's House
The person near the door doesn't really have anything significant to say, except I'm pretty sure we all know who the magic fool is. Starts with an E and ends with an N.
The person you are aiming for is the equipment engineer, which is in the western portion.
Do keep in mind that a lot of this equipment is very pricy, but they are also quite worth it. I won't be listing them here, but remember to take my advice. N to check its descriptions, but then use the other keys to check for any hidden advantages and/or disadvantages.
That's all there really is in this house, so let's head out.

To the left of the house is another one, so go ahead and head in if you wish.

_Manamon Renamer's House
This house is home to the manamon renamer known as Alex, who will let you rename your manamon free of charge. If you want to add a name to your manamon, or get rid of one, here's your opportunity.
It is also home to a very rude person, who wishes there were attacks on happy people. Your problem dude.

Alright. Now if we head east, we have the most important building of all!

_Mechamo's Mana Hotel
Heal up. You probably need it after a long trip. And plus, you will need it anyway. Same stuff you would find in any other mana hotel such as the transportal, online battles/trading, that sort.
There is a person next to the door which says Mechamo is the tech capitol of the world, which I guess makes sense considering the word mech is in the name, and there is actually an engineer here.

Heading further east, you will find another building. You will have to follow its left side south. When you are able to go east, do so, and you should find the door. Let's head in.

_Mechamo Airport
This is Mechamo's airport. We will be coming here later, but for now, there are a few things you can do.
Heading east, you will encounter two people.
The first one just asks whether you are an employee. You can't respond or anything, so take the question as you wish. Personally I think it was out of curiosity, but it's up to you.
The second one is northeast from the first one, which is a tamer who is glad to go places with their manamon. Good to hear, my friend. Good to hear.
If you head to the northern wall, and then head west, you will encounter another person, who turned out to have too much stuff. To get some off of their hands, they hand you an optical potion, which when used on your manamon, will increase their accuracy by 2 stages.
Again, I'm not a potions guy, but if you wish to use it, do so. Otherwise, feel free to sell it.
The person to the north is just a receptionist, who tells you all flights are booked, but the stadium challenger discount will be given.
Once you are done, head all the way south, and out the door.

Once you leave, head around the building so that it is to your west, then head north. You will hear an item. It's a lightning element.
And there you have it. That is Mechamo City.
Now, remember that building I told you to avoid? Well we are going in there now.

_Mechamo's Manamon Marketplace
Dude, why did you tell me to avoid something I could have used?!
Well, you'll find out pretty soon.
Buy what you need to buy, sell what you need to sell. There are also a few new pieces of equipment here too.

$Earplugs
These earplugs basically make it so that your manamon takes only three fourths of the damage sound type moves deal, but with the downside of receiving a bit more damage from standard attacks. Put these on whichever manamon you feel would benefit from them.

$Elf Charm
This thing is actually pretty nice, with no penalties either! If you need a 25 percent boost to your manamon's magic element attacks, then here is the piece of equipment you should aim for. It is a bit on the pricy side, so only get it if you know one of your manamon is in need of it.

$Power Bracelet
Oof, watch out with this one. Major attack boosts (plus 25 in both strength and magic), significant damage taken. Have your pick, but don't put it on any frail manamon, you'll be asking for its death.
It's also on the expensive side too, so again, be mindful of that.

$Dark Blade
No penalties again. This sword increases shadow moves by 25 percent. I'd give this to a shadow manamon, maybe Wolfsyre, Shadina, that sort.

There is a person near the northern side of the marketplace who says they saw Eshcon in town today. They even believe he is the answer to the drought. Goodness.
Alright. Before you head out, save.
No I'm serious, save. It's showtime!

Immediately when you step out, you are confronted by someone who seems all kind at first.
When Eshcon is brought up, it seems he doesn't seem too pleased about that facial expression. In fact, the distance closure should be enough to prove that statement.
And just when it could not get any worse, the comments being thrown are not making him any more pleased. And as a result, he summons this Blake dude. And then there were two.
Oh, so his name is Chydon. Okay then. Well now he's saying to him nonsense that was definitely not said. He's essentially putting words in your mouth.
And it just gets even worse. Once the question about this other person Domonne is posed, she comes running over. And then there were three.
And apparently, she doesn't seem too pleased either.
And to remedy this, a battle is initiated to make you reconsider your, ahem, viewpoints.
Alrighty, you asked for it. They do put up quite a fight though, so be warned.
Note: 3 on 3.

@Eshconites Chydon, Blake and Domonne
Chydon's Zintrabat is level 29, Blake's Zintrabat is level 29, and Domonne's Ratsal is level 29
Chydon's Kangard is level 30, Blake's Kangard is level 30, and Domonne's Kangard is level 30
Chydon's Schemu is level 29, Blake's Niamanja is level 29, and Domonne's Sansuran is level 29
Having toruble processing that you three? You just got wrecked.

Oh, I'm pretty sure they are proud of themselves. Although they did just lose so... probably quite the opposite.
I have to agree, 3 on 1 is quite unfair.
Kev is apparently not caring about what just happened though, since it just so turns out Eshcon isn't even here, he's at Brytanburg. But the Eshconite trio has definitely got their pride beat out of them.
Oh. Looks like we have a perosn named Dexter who is actually friendly. And he shows you a picture.
There is a ring on his index finger, which apparently has a ruby in it called the Omilis Ruby. It is said to contain special poewrs. So that's how he's making it rain!
Another photograph, this one showing the actual thing itself. This is useful information, so hold onto it.
He does congratulate you for beating 3 bullies, so that's pretty nice of him.
Alright, with all of that aside, you can heal up (no, you don't automatically heal), then we are going back to Brytanburg. So get out that pocket copter, and lets return!

_From Mechamo City to Brytanburg West
Remember that building I told you to avoid back when we came to Brytanburg for the first time? Well, now we are going to aim for it.
Head east from the hotel, then head a ways northeast. You will find the door to the building, so go ahead and enter.

_Brytanburg's Madam Boveel's
Another Madam Boveel's, which also means, you probably guessed it. Another Eshcon escapade.
And right as you lunge for Eshcon, an eshconite is ready to save the day! Let's make him save his ass instead.

@Eshconite Dmitry
Miasmouse is level 31
Recobrah is level 29
Yup. Eek indeed.

We're not done yet. More eshconites to get rid of. Here we go!
Head west, and we'll face off against another one.
If a battle counts as an order, yes. If not, sorry, still battling.
Nevermind, we're apparently an interference. Scratch the order.

@Eshconite mawrdanius
Corpscat is level 30
Bombusect is level 30
If you just wanted fries, then you could have just ignored the fact that we were here.

West again. Another eshconite.
Yup, sigh. I just sighed too.

@Eshconite Tasha
Oxenik is level 31
Marlaunt is level 30
Nope. Clearly not.

Alright, that's all on the west side. Now, from the door, head east.
Finally an Eshconite who has the same question I do. Why diners of all places?
And then they have to ruin their question by also believing in his powers. Screw that.

@Eshconite donnielt
Pyrefly is level 33
No. Do not call on Eshcon. He can't do anything, not without that dumb ring he's wearing. Oh wait, you guys don't know that, you're too busy worshipping him.

From the door, head west. Once you are between two tables, start heading north to confront another one.
There's nothing special to watch. He's going from diner to diner, trying to find something he's obsessed with. Let's prove that he should be defeated instead.

@Eshconite Winston
Evillion is level 31
Zintrabat is level 31
Oh you'll be fine.

Keep heading north through the row of tables. You'll start to hear one to the east, so begin heading in that direction.
Oh, so we're after looks, not tricks. Alrighty. I guess I'll make this an exception, considering that hasn't been the situation lately.

@Eshconite Tuggieon
Thornita is level 32
Gargarram is level 32
Sure, sure.

Further north we go, and we'll face off against another one.
Well, you were found. Sorry.

@Eshconite Mark
Morghoul is level 31
Morghoul is level 31
Zintrabat is level 31
Still did regardless.

The next one is all the way north, then west.
Save before this battle.
Wouldn't be surprised if you stole that casserole. But no, it can't wait. Be gone!

@Eshconite Francis
Turoison is level 30
Zintrabat is level 29
Niamanja is level 30
Sansuran is level 30
Furivia is level 30
Roazah is level 30
Yeah, the one you were having is likely cold by now.

Uh oh. Time to fight Eshcon himself. And he is not happy.
He has dialogs between his manamon releases, so I'll comment on them.
Note that he doesn't always release the manamon that he has in the same order, but all of them are documented. This is how I ended up fighting them.

@Eshconite Eshcon
Gubbulline is level 33 (always the one he releases first)
Who said you were going easy in the first place?
Zintrabat is level 32
If you ask me, I've seen enough. But fine, next manamon.
Sacroloon is level 35
Of course you fight good. Ignore him!
Yup. Leave. All of you.

Madam Eastwood is just as glad that you got rid of those annoying idiots just like Westwood was. She also gives you a full revive, use it wisely! Full revives revive a manamon to max health, unlike the revive which only restores it by half.
And just in case you were wondering, you do not get money in the register by clicking that option. So do not reboot your save to try and choose that option. :P
Alright, we are done here. We have saved yet another diner. People can once again eat in peace.
From my exploration, I did not find any items in here, but if there are, oops on my part. With that being said, let's head out!

Feel free to go heal up at the hotel, which is southeast of the diner. You probably need it anyway.
Alright. So the game doesn't really explain what to do from here, but what you want to do is head to Brytanburg North. Head east from Brytanburg West, until you reach Brytanburg Central. Then, head north.

_From Brytanburg's Madam Boveel's to Brytanburg North
Keep heading north, and you will be spotted by Sangora. Let's just say, she's not looking so good, based on how she's trying to walk.
But never fear. You are there to help! But she's being stubborn and refusing it.
And then she almost falls to the ground. Yup, now you really need help.
She's still being stubborn about it, but eventually she relents. It's in the eastern section of Brytanburg, which is now accessible after this interaction. It is a house with trees around it and a fountain, so let's go find that house.
Head south out of Brytanburg North, then in central, head east, where you can finally go further east.

_brytanburg East
Take a few steps north, I'd say until you hear a person not too far off, then start heading east. It's just open space for now.
Eventually, you'll encounter a building. Move around it to the south, then continue east. You will come to some grass, so start heading north just a little bit.
You will reach the house, with two trees and a fountain, just as she described. Save, and then show Sangora inside.

_Mercilla's House
Well, she's back where she needs to be. But it looks like it's confession time.
She admits what happens, and then you and Mercilla help her into the bedroom to rest.
And yet, she still wants a manamon battle. Alright then, if you say so.
Note: Not always in the same order, similar to Eshcon.

@Manamon Tamer Sangora
Angillish is level 32
humbabang is level 32
Kangard is level 32
Sirennet is level 32
folimoss is level 32
Lantlare is level 32
No problem.

Alright. Sangora is now asleep. Nice to meet you again Mercilla, see you later!

Before we head out of Brytanburg East, there are a few places you might find useful later on.
From Mercilla's, follow the southern wall west, and when it ends, head south. You will run into the back of a building. Follow it west.
Once you are able to go south, do so, sticking to the building on the right. When it ends, head east, and through the door.

_Manamon Breeder's House
Here, you will meet Jerry, the manamon breeder. For the price of 5000 gold, he is willing to breed one of your manamon, so you can get a level 1 version of it. For more information, click the More info option.
There are also two other individuals in this house.
The one in the northwestern section tells you how to evolve Cloritus into Sanctosole by giving it a haunted hat when it is level 30 or higher. Keep that in mind.
The other one, which is a bit south, is talking about how sick their manamon have become after going to train at Dyeur Hills. I hope they get better soon.
Alright, we are done here, so let's head out.

The last building is actually near the entrance, and further north, past the person who is trying to kick Tangerians out of Kiarre. What an idiot.

_Tangerian Embacy
Welcome to the Tangerian Embacy.
Here, once you pass the master stadium, you can transfer your manamon from Manamon 1 to Manamon 2, so you can enjoy your Manamon 1 team in the second game.
It is extremely obvious that it can't be done right now. Talk to the person. Lmao

Alright, that's pretty much it here. We have one more thing to do here, then we'll be putting Brytanburg behind us for now.
Before we can actually trigger it though, we need to copter back to Mecahmo.

_Back at Mechamo City from Brytanburg East
This time head back to the marketplace, but rather than going in, head around it to the right. You will start to hear a map entrance.
Before you can go in, you are abruptly stopped. Previously, it would just say "You can't go into the desert with out at least a thermos or something." This time, however, an additional dialog will appear, saying where you can obtain a thermos. This so happens to be the Brytanburg Superstore.
That being said, now let's copter back to Brytanburg, and head to the superstore. I assume you know where it is by now, so I won't go into too much detail here.

_Back at Brytanburg Superstore from Mechamo City
Feel free to buy or sell what you desire.
Once you hit Escape to exit, you'll automatically ask if there is a thermos, since it didn't appear in the menu. The cashier says it is on the house too, so no gold required on your part.
Alright, we're done here, so let's head out! Copter back to Mechamo, we are done with these two places for now.

_Back at Mechamo City from Brytanburg Superstore
Alright, let's head to the desert. Remember, it is east of the marketplace, then north.
Be warned, this map is a pain, but I'll try to walk you through it to the best of my ability. You will see why.

_Seult Desert.
A helpful dialog pops up informing you about the desert. In this map, you must keep track of your thirst.
If your thirst reaches 100, you will die, as if your manamon team was taken down.
Use H to check your thirst, and Control plus H to drink from your acquired thermos.
You honestly want to be careful, because I make this mistake too. Keep track of your thirst, it goes up rather quickly if I must say so myself. And also, be careful when drinking, because it only holds 5 sips at a time.
The good news is that you will occasionally find a stream to refill your thermos, and you can press your interaction key to fill up your thermos, and reset your thirst to 0 as well. It's a win win.
In the case where you must leave your computer or do other things in the background, staying within the stream will not affect your thirst. This is good if you forget to hit Escape/X.
Also, if you do exit the Seult Desert, or you are in a place where thirst is not a concern, your thirst will automatically be reset to 0, and the thermos will be magically full again.
Alright. Now that you have the concept of staying hydrated in this map, let's get moving! And again, occasionally press H.
Manamon Available: Feefeye, Scorchion, Torchin

Start out by heading west, until you bump the western wall. Follow it north, then when a gap opens up, take a few steps west. You will almost immediately be able to head north, so go ahead and do so.
Aaron doesn't waste time. We already have a tamer, and an item! Let's deal with the tamer first.
Well that's good for you. Not everyone has that luxury.

@Programmer Jaron
Vipesla is level 33
Yeah, and bring more manamon next time too.
Also, isn't it interesting that Jaron rhymes with Aaron? Okay that was uncalled for.

Hey. Look, it's a bonus reward. 1000 gold!
Quick detour. Another tamer blocking a gap situation. Step east to the right of Jaron, then head north until you are against the northern wall. Start heading east, and in the corner, snag the 3 hidden revives. Use them wisely, especially in this map in particular.
Now from Jaron, head back south, following the eastern wall. Once you can go east, do so, and almost immediately start heading north.
Do not head north all the way, you will just sort of run into a wall with no gaps west or east. Instead, take a few steps north, then start heading east.
Once you are through the gap, head south, and snag the master herb that's just not wanting to reveal itself. Yours now.
Head back north, following the western wall. Once it disappears, head west a few steps, then start heading south. Another gap will eventually appear in the eastern wall, so start to head east.
The wall will disappear abruptly, so start heading north once it does. When you reach the northern wall, start heading east.
The northern wall will also open up pretty quickly, so head north once it does. You will hear a chest. Open it to get a U P Restorative, and a Max U P Restorative.
Head to the eastern wall and follow it south. The wall will shift slightly, so head east again to stick to it. A small gap will eventually appear, so head east.
Once there's open space, head north. Once you reach the northern wall, head east to find the eastern wall. Follow it south.
Once the eastern wall opens up again, start to head east. You will start to walk into a muddy area.
Learn to love this water sound. This is a stream. If your thermos is running low and/or you have a high thirst level, go ahead and interact with it, and let's continue on our way.
Once you head east through the stream, start heading north, and stick to the western wall. Once it opens up, head west. The north will eventually open up again, so head north, and keep to the eastern wall.
Once the eastern wall opens up, head east. You will hear an item, and a moving tamer. The item is an ultra encounter down. Trust me, this will be very, very useful.
Head east until you reach the tamer, who apparently says she has legally changed her name to a more beautiful one. Alright then.

@Musician Viola
Quartantula is level 33
Scorchion is level 31
Scorchion is level 31
Oh you're fine. Such a drama queen. Also, why did you name yourself after an instrument? Or am I being weird...

Continue east past the instrument, um I mean the tamer, and stick to the northern wall. Once a gap presents itself, head north a step or two.
I'll let you know right now as I was writing the line immediately below this one, I ended up dying. Forgot to press X, oops? That's another thing, take advantage of the pause menu if you plan to be away for awhile. Or in my case, writing. At least I saved after fighting the tamer so I could take care of it.
Anyways, start to head east, and stick to the southern wall. Once you reach the eastern wall, start to head north. Eventually, a gap will appear in the eastern wall, so take it.
Travel east for a bit, then once you find the next eastern wall, follow it north. Once you reach the northern wall, head west, and head through the entrance into the next section of the map.

_Desert Tunnel
One thing about this desert is you'll be in several places that will seem very alike. That being said, press Shift plus R to check if you have ever been to the location before. If you have been to the location more than once and this is your first time traveling through the desert, try going in a different direction.
This shortcut will report how many times you have visited the map, and when you last visited it.
This tunnel runs east for a very very long time, so just continue heading east.
Eventually you will hear a rock to the south. Break it with your trusty hammer, and head in that direction. Once you are against the southern wall, head east until you reach the eastern wall. Then, head north and out of the tunnel.

_Back in Seult Desert
There is a sign here that also gives you another tip. You can hit Shift plus your interaction key to check how many times you have examined the object, and how many times you have examined it since arriving in the area. This is also helpful to understand where you are located.
In addition, there is another stream here (head north and a bit west), so drink and fill up if necessary.
Alright, let's continue! Head west, and we will confront another tamer.
Ugh. Another one of you annoying ninjas. Be gone!

@Ninja Kid Christoph
Araknite is level 33
Molandon is level 32
Yeah, I'm sure that didn't feel too good.

Head west past this defeated ninja, and there will be a gap in the northern wall you can go through, so go ahead.
Once you reach the northern wall, head west. Eventually it will be open space, so start heading north. At the next one, follow it west, and head north when it opens up.
Follow the next northern wall you encounter west, then when you reach the western wall, start heading south. The wall will shift slightly, so head west, and if you are able, continue west. If not, you may have to walk south a bit more to find the opening.
Eventually, you will find open space once again. Head north, and keep the eastern wall to your right.
There will be a gap to the east, but there is a chest you can open that is to the west. It contains a Torch Hammer.
Anyways, continue east through the gap, and stick to the eastern wall as you head north. Once it ends, head east, and keep to the southern wall. This will end quite fast, so start heading south after this happens. Upon reaching the southern wall, head east to find another chest containing a Smoke Element.
Head north, following the eastern wall, and take the gap east when it presents itself. You may reach another wall to the east, so simply follow it north.
Head west slightly, and we will proceed through another part of the map to the north.

_Desert Tunnel
Yes, another tunnel. No, there's not a straight shot. Head west a bit, then head north. There is a tamer moving around, let's go fight them.
It's another ghost hunter! Apparently, your solidity and manifestation is of great significance, too.

@Ghost Hunter Tamara
Lantlare is level 34
Pyrefly is level 34
Aperishian is level 34
Nope. Not a ghost.
And poof. She vanishes.

Follow the eastern wall north for awhile, and when it opens up, head east. Stick to the southern wall, and you will be traveling east for quite a long time.
Once you finally reach the eastern wall, head north for awhile. You will approach the exit out of the tunnel, let's head out.

_Back in Seult Desert
There is a sandstorm here. Sometimes, there are locations which will have a default weather setting, and you will notice this once you start a battle. This is one of them.
Follow the entrance west. Once it disappears, and there is a gap to the south, head through it. Once you reach the southern wall, head west, until you reach the western wall.
Take a few steps north so that a gap appears in the western wall, and head west. You will hear another tamer.
I'm not too sure what to say about this, except the fact that it is both concerning and understandable.

@Country Girl Natalie
humbabang is level 34
Corpscat is level 34
Zintrabat is level 32
Glad you are satisfied.

Stick to the northern wall, and head west. Once a gap appears, head north, and follow the eastern wall.
When you reach the next northern wall, take a few steps south, then head west, and keep to the new northern wall. Ignore the gaps, and keep traveling west until you reach the western wall.
Now, head north, and we will enter yet another area.
This is still the desert, and there is a very interesting machine in front of you, called the Manalith Healing Unit. This will heal all your manamon, just as if you were to sleep in a bed, except obviously you don't sleep on the machine. Manamon 1 players may remember the origin of this machine.
There is an important event ahead, and usually putting these machines here signifies something intense is about to happen, like a boss for instance. but if you wish to train before confronting it (yes, I said it), go ahead. After all, there is a machine right there, just in case you do lose a few manamon or two. But do remember, you do have thirst in this map, so training will be limited.
I'd also go ahead and save. Things are about to get interesting, again.
Head to the northern wall, then travel west.
Yup, yet another stream. This keeps going on and on.
But hey, something new (good news)! A massive creature ooking thing, in fact it's a dragon (bad news)!

@@Desert Dragon
Level: 30
This dragon is relatively simple to deal with, but you need to be a bit careful because it can easily backfire on you.
On the battlefield, you have the dragon, and you also have a quake machine. The quake machine won't do anything to you, unless you do something to it.
What you want to do, is hit the dragon. Use the simplest moves on it, do not waste your advanced ones. For instance, in my case, I am using wing slash rather than dive bomb with my Colovaird.
Eventually what the dragon will do, is tunnel underground. This is where the quake machine comes into play. Since it is underground, it can't dodge. Attack the quake machine, and it will use the move earthquake.
Now this has a pro and a con. It will most likely hit the dragon, but remember, it can hit you too. Earthquake is a move that affects 3 manamon, but since you will only have 2 out at a time, it will hit both.
This is where my advice about it backfiring becomes useful. Make sure the manamon you have out do not take much damage from earthquake. For instance, do not have a flame type out.
If you go to view enemy information and press H on the dragon, you will see that its health will gradually go down the more you do this.
The dragon will keep using this tunneling method for awhile, so keep attacking the quake machine every time it does this. Do not attack it when it is above ground, it'll dodge.
Eventually, the dragogn will catch on, and shatter the machine. Now, it's between you and the dragon. So much for a fun toy.
At this point, you can start using your more advanced moves on the dragon, since it will now actually take damage.
You will get a decent amount of experience. Not as much as other bosses, but still pretty good.
Good luck!

Alright, now that that's over, we are almost to the next city. Head north from the stream.
After awhile, you will approach an entrance you will appreciate.

_Seulee City
We're out of that ridiculous place. No more pressing H and sipping from that thermos of yours.
Heading west, the first building you will encounter is the marketplace.

_Seulee's Local Marketplace
This is more of a local marketplace, if anything. It doesn't really provide anything extremely fancy like regular marketplaces, because, well, it's local.
That being said, all they really have is herbs (normal and strong), total cures, and a new piece of equipment called a desert guard. I won't put the desert guard under an equipment header, because all it really does is just make the manamon you equip it on immune to sand storm, with no penalties.
There is actually a person in the southwestern corner who explains why there isn't an official manamon marketplace here.
A bit northeast of them is someone asking for a donation to expand the market. Feel free to donate, I don't think it actually does anything to be honest.
There is also a person southwest of the seller, who is actually offering transformation items! The first time you interact with them, they'll tell you they were just hired, so interact with them again to bring up the list.
All items are 5000 gold.
Alright, let's head out.

If you go around the marketplace to the west, and then head north, there is this ridiculous person who has this notion that the world is flat. How I wish I could throw a stone at them with my Limewurm, but I digress. Remember, I'm playing as I'm writing.
Before we continue, let's head through that exit to the west.

_Springdale Turf
I use this location to train my manamon. It's a pretty nice spot, especially if you need that boost in levels for your manamon.
It is also home to a house that you may find useful.
head around the wall to the north by travelin west, then when it ends, head north.
You will start to hear a door. Move in the direction of it, and head inside.

_Speed Coach's House
In this house, you can have a person examine your manamon and tell you about how good their speeds are. If all of the manamon you have are fast enough, he will reward you.
. . . Spoiler. It is a really cool item. If you are training a manamon, attempts to flee will always succeed. This obviously does not work when fighting enemies, only feral manamon.
Alright. Let's head out of the house, and back into Seulee. Head south, then east back into the city.

_Back in Seulee City
I still want to teach this person some common decency about how the world is not flat, but that's a waste of time.
If you head east of them, you will run into a building. Follow it south, and you will discover that there is a tamer blocking the entrance to what is the Seulee Stadium, claiming they are going to challenge the stadium before you do. Again, another one of Manamon's ways of saying, nope. Can't go here yet.
Heading east past the stadium is another building that is almost level with it. Let's head inside.

The person a bit northwest from the door, positioned by a wall, is asking about who the current manamon master is, because they do not watch the TV a lot to really know.
This is a pretty huge house. Head to the northern wall, and follow it east. When a gap opens up, go ahead and continue north, and stick to the eastern wall.
You will hear a chest. Open it to obtain a giganet.
The person to the west is researching manamon abilities. There's nothing he has to really say other than that.
Alright, we are done here. Let's head out. Head south through the little hallway thing, then south out the door.

You can't go any further east. Instead, you need to circle around. Head west, and then follow the left side of the house north. When you are able to head east, do so, and keep the house behind you.
Keep heading east, and you will bump into another building. Follow it south, and when you are able to go east, you can find the door into the building. Let's head inside.

_Seulee's Mana Hotel
Heal up, manage your party, etc etc.
There is a person near the wireless communication system person (whatever you wish to call them), who says their brother is an Eshconite and that you have been giving them a lot of problems. His advice is to stay away and bother someone else. We don't take orders from you.
Alright, we are done here, so let's head out.

That's all there really is on this side of the city, so let's head back to the opposite side.
From the person who has the assumption that the Earth is flat, head south, and stick to the western side of the building to your east. This is the stadium. This will become apparent when you hear the building disappear, and you start heading east to find the tamer who wants to go in first.
Continue past the stadium, but this time, head south a ways, then head east. You will pass by some benches.
Eventually, a gap will open up to the south, so start heading in that direction. This is quite an open space, but if you are a few steps away from the western wall, you will hear the building door. Follow the source anb head in.

_Seulee's Madam Boveel's
Ah yes, another one. But this one isn't occupied by Eshconites just yet, it seems.
This is made apparent by the person who greets you on your way in.
They'll ask you for your number so they can reach out to you about Eshconites that show up.
And that's essentially all we do here. You can buy some meat pies if you would like, but otherwise, we're out.

Within the timeframe of us being in the diner, two things have happened.
1. Go to Brytanburg's Superstore, and check it out! It's awesome! There are now 5 floors, each with different sellers. If you are looking for some good equipment, floor 5 is your best bet. I find myself using floor 1 and floor 2, which are nets and medicinal items.
2. We can finally challenge the next stadium. Head north from the diner, back west, and then find the stadium building.
Let's head in, and get ready! because this is going to be quite whacky.

_Seulee Stadium
Type: Shadow
Ah yes. A stadium with no wall tones. How pleasant!
Your goal is to essentially get through this area, with no cues to guide you.
I'll try my best to explain how to get through here, but to be honest, the invisibility of all of this makes it quite difficult. As such, I would not fully rely on this section.
Head north. When you reach the northern wall, take a step east, then head north. You'll hit another wall to the north.
Follow the wall for a bit. Feel free to hit it as you go, because eventually a gap will open up in the wall that sadly, is not audible. Go ahead and go through.
When you reach the next northern wall, head west, and we'll face our first tamer. At least we can hear them.
Oh dear. More ghost hunters.

@Ghost Hunter Maggy
Aperishian is level 34
Aperishian is level 34
Aperishian is level 35
Oof. That probably sucks. Also, you have a massive obsession with Aperishian.

Head west of Maggy, then start heading north. You'll encounter another tamer.
Um, okay then...

@Detective Dennis
Wolfsyre is level 35
Schemu is level 35
Oh, you'll be fine.
They disappear too. Guess it was too much for them to handle.

Head north until you hit the northern wall. Head east (you may need to step backward to avoid a small lip to the east) and you will encounter another tamer.
And here I thought we were done with thieves. Oh well, here we go again.

@Thief Amy
Sirennet is level 37
It's 1234. Or is it? Guess you'll never find out.
And then they just have to make matters worse by saying you have no home address. Friggle off.

If you head slightly east of Amy, you will be able to go north. Once you find the northern wall, head east a ways, and then start trailing that wall south. It'll open up, so continue heading east.
It's up to you here. If you want to continue heading east until the eastern wall, then head north, you can do so. Or, you can follow the northern wall until it opens, then continue north slightly, then head east.
And here, we have our next thug, um I mean tamer. They're doing community service. We all know the reason for that; He even says so in his dialogue.

@Thug Duane
Wolfsyre is level 35
Niamanja is level 35
Of course it is. You're a prisoner. It's not like you are on the treadmill or hefting weights every day. Is that even what you do? Crap, for one it is not my concern, and for two I'm rambling.
He actually goes away too. Guess he went to do more community service.

Continue heading north. Eventually you will be able to head east, so do so. This is a diagonal path. Head east, then south, east, south, etc.
Once it evens out, continue east. The easiest way to access this next part is to go to the eastern wall, then head south.
Save. Because this is the stadium leader.

@Stadium Leader Adrik
Sirennet is level...
Oh? What's this, a call from Mercilla!
And something quite concerning has happened.
Sangora has disappeared.
And sadly, you must forfeit. But no worries, you will be back later.

Do you hear that?
Isn't it just a wonderful sound?
We have our wall tones back! And it will stay that way!
If the instructions are different from what is above, then it proves I also had problems. :P
From Adrik, stick to the eastern wall and head north. Upon reaching the northern wall, take a step west, then head north.
At the next northern wall, head west. When it opens up, head north.
There will be a gap in the western wall somewhere south, so when you find it, go ahead and take it.
And we will now go diagonally. South, west, south, west, etc.
Once that ends, head north, and then go northwest. So north, west, north, west, etc.
Once it all evens out, head west. Don't head west all the way, start going south. You will come across a gap in that general area, so head south through it.
When you reach the next southern wall, head west. When it opens up, head south again.
Again, \at the next southern wall, head west. It'll open up south. You can use the tamer to the south as a landmark.
Once you reach said tamer, head west, sticking to the southern wall for guidance. It'll eventually open up to the south, so head south.
You may need to sidestep a little when you reach the next southern wall, so that you can head south further. Then, head east, past the tamer who is not really happy about the fact you won, specifically the one that had three Aperishians for some reason or another.
Past them, head east. You will reach the eastern wall, so head south and out the door.

Alright, we will be back later, let's head to Brytanburg, again!
I'm sure you know your way about this place now, so we'll just jump right to Mercilla's, which is in Brytanburg East.

_From Seulee City to Mercilla's House
The second door on the left is Mercilla's room. Head in and talk to her to start the search for Sangora.

You can search all over, but for those who want her location, here it is.
Head to Brytanburg south, and there is an open area to the east. The event will trigger anywhere there.
What's this? Selling manamon?
Specifically, it's Sangora doing the selling. Well, until she fell.
And the dude takes advantage of that to get the gold back.
He apparently knows you too, from stopping some of his buddies during the Conduan Museum incident. That feels like ages ago. Well, at least to me, because I've been writing this guide for so long.
Apparently the manamon Sansuran serves as an insult now. Alright, we'll go with it.
Mercilla arrives before things can get too intense. At least he left the gold behind. She's not dead, so that's good.
Alright, back to Mercilla's.

This time, head to the guest room, the first door on the left.
Feel free to read all of it. The gist is that you are headed to the Master Stadium to move the stadium battle.
And to do this, we need to go to Mechamo's Airport.

_From Mercilla's House to Mechamo Airport
If you copter back to Mechamo, just head east to the next building over, which is this one.
Now, head to the receptionist all the way north.
In the menu, select the master stadium option.
The fee to fly is 900 gold. However, if you can't afford it, you can fight someone to get it. It's a civil battle, don't worry.
This is only if you do not have 900 gold. If you have it, you can skip this fight.
I think the fact that I am writing this fight down already tells you I definitely did not have 900 gold on me.

@Gentleman Mark
Rhinodyo is level 36
Sansurgion is level 36
Nice fight man!

_Master Stadium
No, we are not here to challenge the stadium. That's way later in the game.
Instead, go around the bed, and interact with the person near it. They'll tell you the manamon master has already left, and that you should sleep here.
I would give you a layout of this place, but I think it is best to do it when we are officially there, and not right now. That being said, interact with the bed.
And you end up sleeping late, and wake up when the battle is just about to begin. Whoops?
This is probably the most strangest way of interrupting a stadium battle, thus making the incoming call one rather comical. Imagine a tamer running in, out of breath, and informing you that your loved one is about to die. It's rather startling.
You plead for the battle to be moved, and it is.

_Bakc at Brytanburg from the Master Stadium

@Rubin (not real stadium so not an important header)
So the way this battle works, is you actually play as Norman. You get access to his manamon. Both teams are level 100, the max level your manamon can go.
You do not, however, get access to his inventory.
This is usually how I defeat him.
Switch to Molandon to face off against Golavath.
Switch to Thornita to face off against Kaboerain.
Switch to Colovaird or Daggeetle to face off against Bamboustica
Take on Shadyena with Daggeetle.
Take on Javoltrik using anything besides Colovaird, but watch Erroir's back.
With Dragomier, he has other ideas. The move sort of misses, and hits Norman instead.
Well that didn't end so well...

Now, we need to head to Brytanburg Hospital, which is in Brytanburg West.

_Brytanburg Hospital, Checking up on Norman
Looks like he isn't doing so well...

Now, you have to go back to Brytanburg East, and tell Sangora, who is at Mercilla's.
She is in the guest room. Interact with her to tell her the news, and she will come with.
You can't fly while Sangora is with you sadly, so you'll have to trek back to Brytanburg West.

_Back at Brytanburg Hospital, Norman
And thus, the end is near, and then, it becomes a reality.

_Brytanburg Worship Space
Both are buried, and our journey continues.
Alright, there are a few things we can do here before we head out.
In the southwestern section, you will find what's called Curing Mist. This mist rids of all status conditions on all of your manamon. Use these wisely.
In the northeastern section, you will find an item. It's a UP boost. Unlike restoratives, boosts increase your usage points of a move permanently by 3. Use this on a really good move that only has a limited amount of usage points.
To the north, there will be a door.
Remember that ancient crypt key that was obtained in the Polar Preserve? Well, we can use it here.
Simply click on the door, and when it asks if you want to use the key, go ahead and do so.

_Ancient Crypt
Manamon Available: Miasmouse, Cloritus
This map is relatively empty, except for a few things which we can obtain.
We can only do a limited amount of things here, as we will be back way later.
First, if you head slightly west, and then all the way north, you will find a chest. It contains a Treasure Chest key.
Head south from the chest, sticking to the eastern wall. When it ends, Head east.
There is another chest up against the eastern wall, containing a life tonic. This is an extremely rare item that will give a manamon all the training points they are missing, no matter how many.
Be careful who you use this on, you won't be finding a lot of these!
Now, retrace your steps back to the door. But this time, we are going to head east.
There will be a narrow gap between the southern wall and northern wall that goes east, so head through it. It'll open up to the north, so head in that direction.
There is a chest here. Open it to obtain a Dark Shrowd, a piece of equipment that makes the manamon it is equipped on immune to holy attacks, with no penalties!
Keep heading east. Eventually it will sound like you are coming to a wall, but you will suddenly head through a sort of barrier.
There is a gap in the eastern wall, so take it.
There is a loud buzzing sound to the east. This will teleport you back to the worship space.
Don't head south, we can't do that yet. You need a certain item that we won't have for a very long time. Go ahead and use the teleporter if you would like. Don't worry, it is harmless.

Head all the way south, and out of the door. We have to go see Mercilla again, so head to her house.

_From Brytanburg Worship Space to Mercilla's House
Head to the guest room. Mercilla will automatically speak to you once you head in.
Remember how Sangora only sold 5 nets?
Well, she didn't sell her sixth, but now with her permission, it's yours.

#Sirennet
Type: Water and Shadow
This is quite an interesting manamon. I like to say it's the opposite of Angillish. Rather than being water and holy, this one is water and shadow.
It comes with some pretty good moves, but I personally think it dies rather easily. It's magic defense is quite low, and so is its physical defense.
It does actually get a magic move, but I can't remember what it is called at the top of my head right now. If I figure it out, I'll swap this line out.

Alright. That's the end of that plot. Let's continue!

Right as you leave Mercilla's, you get a phone call.
It's the waitress from Boveel's. And apparently, an eshconite has been hanging around Seulee. Let's go see what's happening!

_Back at Seulee City
I assume you know your way to the diner now, so let's head there.

_Back at Seulee's Madam Boveel's
Oof. Things are not looking too good. She saw Eshcon.
Or no, not Eshcon. It's none other than Seinarus!
For Manamon 1 players, you probably remember this name all too well.
And then, the door is busted open. Eshcon comes in, followed by...
Oghma? What the...
And there's another name Manamon 1 players probably remember too, Rena.
Anyways, where were we? Ah yes, Oghma criticizing Eshcon for being a "big joke," and a "scam artist." In case you have your screen reader's symbols disabled or on the some setting, I put both of those in quotes.
And look at his ring. It contains a very vital ruby, specifically the Omilis Ruby. And Oghma, for whatever reason, wants that ring.
And we are slowly but surely, starting to see Oghma's true colors.
1. Byron's been working for me. Oghma said.
2. Those thieves I hired to break into the Art Museum were pathetic.
Well, no wonder the kid was standing in front of the museum, and acting strange at Solphoa's Boveel's.
Well now, Oghma is not only dismissing you, but asking you to join him at the same time? Talk about logic.
And then he leaves.
And this, people, is where the fun begins.

As you walk out, he copters away. I actually had no clue he even had a pocket copter until I first played this game like, what... 2 or 3 years ago?
Before we can actually go running after him though, we need to challenge Adriq, the Seulee stadium leader. I think you already know where that is by now, but if you don't, look above.

_Back at Seulee Stadium
The wall tones are still here (permanently), so you can make your way to Adriq. Let's get this over with.
When Adriq asks you why the battle was moved, it doesn't matter what you select. His response will be different, but it doesn't exactly change what he says later on.

@@Stadium Leader Adrik
Sirennet is level 38 with a Speed Anklet V2.0 equipped
Niamanja is level 38
Shadyena is level 40
Werewolfsyre is level 38
No, was an urgent matter.
And here is your fourth key, the Demon key!
You also get a piece of equipment called a Gambler's Gauntlet. I don't like this piece of equipment; Read the description and find out why.

Alright, we are done here!

Before we head for Conduan City, we need to obtain something.
Remember that area where the diner is? Well, rather than going south, instead head north. There is a man in the eastern corner.
If it helps, there is a bench just west of him.
If you show him the demon key, he will hand you a rope, which allows you to climb obstacles in the game, most often trees.
We will be needing this rope in Conduan, and here's why.
Let's copter there, and you'll find out.

_Back at Conduan City
Alright, now we are headed for Oghma's. Head south a ways from the hotel, then start heading west, following the southern wall.
When it disappears, head south. You may need to go around the building west to continue south, but you will eventually start hearing the chimes signifying you are near Wudrest Valley. Head west from here.
There will be a building that will come up. It's Oghma's house. You may need to go around the building if you are behind it.
Alright, let's enter.

_Oghma's House
There is going to be a gap on the eastern side that leads to a machine. Sound familiar?
Interact with this machine, and it will say it needs a peripheral device.
Head west to Oghma's bedroom, and interact with his bed. This will use the rope to retrieve the device that is unabled to be reached.
Now, go back to this machine, and interact with it.
It will ask you to enter the password. You get numerous options.
. . . Password Spoiler. If you would rather not go through the hastle of trying each and every password, the correct one is Omilis.
Now, we are in a different area of the house. The teleporter you hear takes you back to the main area.
Head to the southern wall, then follow it west. When it opens up, head south.
When you reach the next southern wall, head west. When it opens up, head south a few steps.
You will hear a gate in the distance, hence why I said take only a few steps. Save here, we have something to deal with.

@@Guardian Robot
Level: 35
This thing is annoying to defeat. Since it is a robot, it uses steel moves, and they are very powerful too.
This thing should not be underestimated, as a lot of its moves, if you aren't careful, can take down your manamon in one or two hits.
It's also quite resistant to a lot of attacks, so again, be careful. However, type advantage attacks will work on it.
It does come with some of the boss abilities, like not being able to be put to sleep and all of that, so treat it as a hyper in terms of that.
You will get quite a load of experience from it too.
]Good luck!

Head through the gate, and then go south. Once you reach the southern wall, head west a few steps, then start going south through the opening.
The eastern wall will abruptly vanish, so begin heading east and stick to the wall to the north.
There will be a few gaps in the wall. You want the last one if you are going east, or the first one going west. Head north through it.
Up ahead, there is a person who explains about conveyor belts. They basically carry you a short distance, and have two sides. One takes you in one direction, while the other takes you in the opposite direction, meaning they can only go one way. You can't take the opposite direction belt in the direction that the belt actually goes, and vice versa.
That being said, there are two belts up ahead. The one to the right comes back this way, and the one to the left continues north. So, take the left one.
Once you head off the belt, head north, and...
WOOSH, THUMP!
You'll come to appreciate this sound. NOT.
These people appear right in front of you, without warning. No sound indicator or anything. That being said, save when you can, because you never know when the next one will come out of thin air.
Serving Oghma is your only purpose? Um, is he like a divine figure now?
Great. As if things could not get any worse. We have eshconites, now oghminions?

@Oghminion Tarafaur
Ratiera is level 35
Shadyena is level 36
Oh trust me, we know him.

There is a gap west of Tarafaur. Take it all the way west, ignoring the gaps that present themselves. You will find another gate, so head through.

From the gate, head south until you reach the southern wall, then head east. A chest will be to the north. Open it to receive a Max U P Restorative.
Now head back to the gate by going west, and then north.
This time, head for the northern wall, then head west. When the northern wall opens up, save, then go north for an invisible oghminion.
Goodness. Not more worshipping and gushing.
Note: 2 on 2.
@Oghminion Brutyl
Bombusect is level 36 and Recobrah is level 36
Recobrah is level 36 and Sansurgion is level 36
That sounds like a you problem.

Up ahead is a conveyor belt that doesn't really do a whole lot, but send you into the northeastern corner.
To avoid this, head west around the belt, then go north.
Now, you will be against the northern wall with the belt behind you. Head east, and when a gap appears, take it north.
At the next northern wall, head east. Upon reaching the eastern wall, head south to find the southern wall, save, then head east again.
Yada yada yada, I don't want to hear it. Oh dear, I'm turning into Kalahami.
Where were we? Ah yes, the battle.

@Oghminion Karasha
Thornita is level 38
Oghma is not the person we thought he was. You're trapped in his spell.

Keep heading east, and once you are able to head north, do so. When you are against the northern wall, head east until you reach a gap in the northern wall. Head through it.
The platform will change, and you will be able to head east, so go ahead. Once you reach the eastern wall, follow it south. You will be able to go east once you walk only a few steps south, so continue heading east.
Do not go south, we will go there later. Instead, stick to the northern wall, and when it opens up, head north. When you run into the next wall, head east.
A path will open up to the south. Instead of heading through it into open space, keep following the northern wall east, then take a step south when you reach the eastern wall. Keep heading east, and you will have a new wall in front of you.
Follow the wall east until it opens up. Save, and then head north for the next oghminion.
Apparently she wants to see your manamon. Okay, here you are.

@Oghminion Anyan
Turoison is level 38
It does, that I can agree with.

Continue heading north until you reach the northern wall. Follow it east, and when you reach the eastern wall, head south.
The eastern wall will abrutply end, so head east. Once you are able, head north, and you will hear a door.
Let's head inside.

_Oghma's House, Old Nursery
Scattered around this place are toys of various kinds. Feel free to interact with them, but they won't do anything of major significance.
Keep to the western wall, and when it opens up, head west. Do not go south when the wall ends, that's another area with a rubber horn just casually sitting there.
Instead, head north, then west. When the wall opens up, head north through it, keeping to the eastern wall.
When the eastern wall opens up, you can head east, and you will be viewing a cutscene of Rena asking about her father Eshcon, or Seinarus.
Feel free to scroll through this cutscene. It sort of ends with a cliffhanger, where Seinarus asks if Rena can forgive him.
Anyways, you can continue east now. When you reach the eastern wall, head north, and you will hear a door. Head through it.

This is merely just a room, with a switch. Flick that switch, and it will tell you the conveyor belt was reversed.
Remember that area I told you not to go yet? We're now able to go there, since that belt will now go where we want it to.
With that being said, head back through the nursery, and out the door at the other end.

_Back in Oghma's House
Head south of the nursery on the carpet. The carpet will temporarily disappear as you continue south.
Once the carpet returns, save, head west, and you will be against the southern wall to face off against another oghminion.
Goodness. This will just never end, will it?

@Oghminion Faristor
Gargarram is level 38
Gargarram is level 38
Zintrabat is level 38
Okay, I guess that's one way to put it.

Keep following the southern wall. When it ends, head south.
Once you reach the southern wall, head west, then follow the western wall north. A gap will open up in the western wall, so take it.
Once you are able to head south, do so. At the next southern wall, head west, and when the southern wall opens up, head south.
Eventually you will hear a metal post. Press Enter, and use your rope to climb it.

Take about 4 steps east, then head south. You will start to hear a conveyor belt to the east.
This is the belt that was previously in reverse, but now we can take it.
And guess what? There's an oghminion on the other side, that is actually visible! So save, and head across.
This one is actually sort of hilarious.

@Oghminion Pareneole
Lantlare is level 40
Yeah you did, but at least you acknowledged it. Well fought.
And they vanished. Bye.

There is another belt to the east, but before you go zooming across it, head to the southern portion of it. If you were to head more toward the norhtern side, there is a teleporter that will teleport you all the way back to the first belt, before the oghminion. However, you can get on it on the northern end too, but let's do that in a bit.
Once you get off, head south, then east. There is a chest here. Open it to get a Domestress Belt. This belt can only be worn by Domestress, but it boosts its stats, with no penalties.
Now take that teleporter. Head east across the first belt. This time, head to the northern side of the second belt, and take it. You will notice the teleporter will now be behind you, so don't step backward.
And now, look what we have here. Its a Manalith Healing Unit!
Save before heading through that door. You're about to go into another epic fight

@@Mecha Slothegor 
Level: 45
This thing makes the robot at the gate look rather weak.
Like the other one, it does take damage from type advantage attacks. This one however, is a mecha version of Slothegor, the transformation of Folimoss. This is a plant type.
Again, this is a boss, so it does have more protection, and will take less damage from attacks which would usually deal a lot. It also has some of the abilities that hypers usually have, so again, treat it as if you were fighting a hyper manamon.
It has an advanced move set too, one of its deadliest ones being Nature Overdrive. The disadvantage to this move is that the user must rest for 2 turns, so take advantage of those turns to pummel it before it is done resting.
You will get quite a lot of experience from this too.
Good luck!

In this room, there are tons of teleporters. Some take you to different areas, while others simply put you back in this room at the door.
Your goal is to take the ocrreect teleporters to reach the other room.
I have provided these necessary teleporters to you.
Head west, then north. Take the teleporter in that corner.
Next, head north of the person you hear to the left of you, then west so that they are behind you. Travel through that teleporter.
Finally, head east until you reach the eastern wall. Take the teleporter to the north.
You will notice that at the northern end of this room is a forcefield. Behind that forcefield is a ladder, which we will head up soon enough.
For now, save, then head through the door to the south.

Immediately when you head through the door, you will be jumped by an oghminion.
Apparently your heart is full of evil, and to save you from it, a battle is the cure. Okay then.

@Oghminion Josafetz
Cowmoono is level 38
Daggeetle is level 40
Miterosier is level 38
Oh you're totally fine.
Also the thing that makes me chuckle about this is he's actually using holy types.

We're not quite done yet.
Head west of the door until you reach the western wall, then follow it south. When it ends, head west.
At the next western wall, save. Head south again, and we have more oghminions to deal with.
I recommend saving after each one here, as things are about to get a bit hectic.
Tip: In the other room, you can take the teleporter back to the room that held the robot. The manalith healing unit is still there, just in case your team is in critical condition. Just head out the door, heal up, go back in, then follow my teleportation instructions above.
Alright, let's go!
Oh, so you are actually getting tired of working here? Well this is certainly a change.

@Oghminion Seagol
Shadyena is level 40
Fuoy? What does that mean...

Take a step or two east, then we will have a hallway full of oghminions.
Do you though?

@Oghminion Ociane
Deciced is level 38
Wolfsyre is level 38
Sure, sure.

South, next oghminion.
Um, where on earth did you hear that?!

@Oghminion Korgol
Werewolfsyre is level 40
Arf arf? That makes three strange oghminions.

South again. Another oghminion.
Take this? That's all you have to say?

@Oghminion Capamaga
Oxenik is level 38
Grimident is level 38
Ratiera is level 39
Grunt away.

South for yet another one.
Apparently, you are a clown of a tamer. How do you feel?

@Oghminion Jepthore
Chillardent is level 39
Centiplex is level 38
Marlaunt is level 39
Not too happy are we?

Alright, time for box puzzles! If you broke your television in your house at the beginning of this guide, you should be familiar with how these work, except for the fact that you do not need to use the Control key in conjunction with your interaction keys.
For those that didn't, I will explain anyway.
Taken from the beginning of the guide, think of it in real life. If you go forward and an object is in front of you, it will go forward. If you are to the left and move to the right, it will push it right. If something is behind you and you step back, it will move the object backward, and if you are to the right of an object and you go left, it will push it left.
This is an east to west corridor. At the eastern end, there are two switches. One is up against the northern wall, while the other is a step away from the southern wall.
Your goal is to move the box onto all switches. There are 5 in total.
There is also a person who is willing to reset the box position for you, just in case you screw up. However, you can also take advantage of saving.
Alright, enough rambling. Let's move the box!
The first task is easy. It just so happens that the box and the switch on the southern side of the corridor are already aligned. That being said, get to the left of the box, and push it right until you hear a bang.
The box will then teleport back to its prior location. Go all the way back to where the box was.
This time, get behind the box and push it two times north, then get on its left side and push it all the way east. The reason we don't want to move it 3 is because it will bump right into the person willing to reset the box, or it will at least come close to doing so.
Once it is all the way east, get behind it, and push it north until you hear another bang.
We are not quite done yet. Three more switches to go. They are in a corridor slightly north from the one with those two switches.
Get to the left of the box, then start pushing it right. Push it until the person is about 3 steps west from you. You can measure this by taking 3 steps east from them, then going north or south to see if you bump into the box.
Now, get behind the box and push it all the way north. Once you reach the northern wall, get to the right of the box and push it onto the switch to the west.
Back to the box. Push it right in a similar fashion (3 steps east of the tamer).
This time, when you get behind the box and push it all the way north, get to the left of the box and push it east onto the next switch.
For the last switch, you want to push it 3 steps past the tamer. When you push it north, however, do not push it up against the wall. Instead, push it a few paces from the wall.
If we want to be precise, you should be able to get in front of the box and hit the wall. If you cannot do this, you pushed the box too far, and you must reload your save or ask the person to reset the box.
Now, get on the left side of the box, and start pushing it east. You will hear a bang, followed by the all too familiar forcefield down sound.
This forcefield so happens to be the one back in the little room with the ladder on the northern end, so retrace your steps back there.

Before you go rushing up that ladder, I'd go use the manalith unit. A really big battle is up ahead.
Also, a general warning. You won't be back here any time soon. Go and buy any necessities that you need to survive, such as herbs or revives. Train up your manamon while you're at it
You may be thinking, I have to travel through the entirety of this place again? Well trust me, it will be worth it.
Alright. Save, and up the ladder we go!

_Requia Gallery
Start heading north. Eventually, you will hear a massive machine sound. Head toward it, and interact with it to trigger the scene.
Good news, it's a cool computer. Bad news, it just so happens to be Oghma's computer.
And this side of Oghma has been exposed. Read through it, and witness the true person who stands before you.
And as much as he's fond of you, he needs to stop you from knowing more about his plans. So, battle time. I'm afraid this is not a friendly battle, either.

@@Oghma
Mantasteel is level 38 with a Fire Suit V2.0 equipped.
humbabang is level 38 with a Megaphone equipped
Vishthaugh is level 39 with an Ambush Guard equipped
Pyrefly is level 40 with a Haunted Hat equipped
Notice that he actually has equipment on his manamon, make them a bit more of a challenge to deal with.
Watch out for his Pyrefly and Vishthaugh. Vishthaugh is the final transformation of Yakshine. If care is not taken, it hits hard.
His Mantasteel is really painful, but if you have a flame type on hand, it is steel and insect type, so double weakness right there.
humbabang is relatively difficult, but it's in one of those stages where it still has a ways to go before being extremely lethal. Take it out with a type advantage manamon though, just to be safe.
You don't get a whole lot of experience or gold from this battle, but it's still something.

Well, he tells you about the machine. Not only that, but he also tells you that he is the cause of the ill manamon out there.
And when you ask for a reason, just before he can give a justified answer...
Now, Byron!
Clang! Metal pole in the head.

_Old Cave
See why I said to stock up? We won't be back for awhile.
Let's show you why!
Head south, keeping to the eastern wall. When it opens up, head east.
At the next eastern wall, follow it south. Before going west, grab the item that presents itself to the south, it's a master herb.
If you went for the item, head back north until you are able to go west.
Once you reach the western wall, take a step south, then continue west. You will eventually be able to go south again, so do so.
Taking a few steps south will allow you to go west, so start heading in that direction. You will find yourself able to go south once more, so go ahead and proceed south.
Again, head west, then south. West, south, etc. You will be doing this for quite awhile.
Once it finally ends, head south, and you will hear an entrance. Head west to find it if you are still against the eastern wall, otherwise we're out.

_Grotena Rainforest
Note: Weather here is rain.
Manamon Available on Land: Plumirage, Wasponge, Enchandithol, Daggeetle, Normammal, Delazzard, Ampanda
Manamon Available in Water: Burgan, Reefe, Finaut
The reason I provided an in-water overview will be discussed later in this section.
Yes, this is entirely different.
And no, we don't have a pocket copter to simply copter back to Seulee or anything. The phone's busted too. It's all walking for now.
In order to go north, we need to get something. There is a rather condescending person who won't let you go that way until you give them what they want. Unfortunately, we need to go trigger it to get what we want.
From the entrance, stick to the northern wall, and head east. Once it opens up, head north, then almost immediately start heading east.
A gap will open up in the northern wall again, so head through it, and stick to the western wall.
Eventually the surface will change, and you will hear this no-nonsense individual. Go north, and interact with him.
You will notice they're blocking a tree, and he isn't planning on moving until he gets what he wants. Specifically, a Glarie Flower.
So, here goes. We need to get that flower for them.
Head back south, and when a gap opens in the western wall, take it west.
Almost immediately start going south once you reach the next wall, and head west, as the wall will abrutply end.
Now we are back at the entrance. Let's go get the flower.
Head south, and once you reach the southern wall, follow it west. Note that if you do not find a path west, you may be too far east or too far west. The entrance is quite wide, so you will have to be in the middle-ish.
When you are able to go south, do so. At the next southern wall, head west a few steps, then continue south.
Quick detour. Don't go all the way south. Instead, follow the western wall south, and when it ends, head west.
At the next western wall, head south, and when you can go west again, do so.
Stick to the northern wall. You will eventually be able to go north again, so head north.
Against the northern wall will be a chest. Open it to get a Resistor, which can be put on a manamon who is more than weak to a move, or has a double weakness. Watch out, it cuts the defense and magic defense stats by 10, something the description does not highlight.
In the same area, head south until you hit the southern wall. Head east a ways, then head south.
Once you reach the southern wall, head east. Sitting in the corner is a mighty herb.
Alright, let's head back, assuming you took the detour.
Head back west, and stick to the northern wall. When it ends, head north.
Once you reach the northern wall, head east until you reach the eastern wall. We are now back.
At the next southern wall, take a step or two west, then continue south, sticking to the western wall for guidance.
When a gap appears in the western wall, take it, and when you are able to go north, do so, and at the northern end to the west will be an item. It's a giganet, so grab it.
If you went for the item, head back to where the gap is in the eastern wall. Don't go back through it. This time, go south until you hit the southern wall, then travel west along it.
When you are able to go south again, head south. At the next southern wall, head west, then when it opens up again, head south, sticking to the western wall.
The western wall will eventually open up, so head west through it.
When you reach the western wall, a gap will be to the north. Sticking to the western wall, take a few steps north. The wall will open up, so head west.
Ignore the gaps to the south, and continue heading west. Once you reach the western wall, find the gap that continues west, and head through it.
Once again, continue heading west, and ignore the gaps that present themselves to the south.
Eventually you will hear a zipper-like sound. This is a tent. The entrance functions just like any other entrance in the game, so go ahead and enter.

Within this tent is a person you can speak to.
Go north and interact with him.
He's never heard of your village, and does not have a phone whatsoever. However, a glarie flower is quite easy to solve.
In order to get these flowers, you must collect 4 Glarie spirits. He will then trade you a flower, specifically the flower that the person who is blocking the tree is desperate for.
Now, if you head back out, you will notice a new machine you can interact with.

Upon stepping out, you will hear a buzzing sound. This is the Glariescope machine. The Glarie spirits are not visible, so this scope will make them visible to you.
Upon activating the machine, you must go around the area and interact with the spirits to get them. You have 10 seconds, and if those 10 seconds end, you must go back to the machine and reactivate it.
They are not hard to find, but getting to them can be tricky sometimes, especially if they are behind walls or in odd places.
Once you have 4 spirits, head back inside, and interact with the man once more. He'll count how many you have, and if the amount is sufficient, he'll ask if you want a flower. Click Yes, and bingo. This is what we need.
Oh, I also forgot to mention. There is a manalith healing unit inside the tent to the left of the entrance. How such a thing fits in here, I have no clue. But that's game logic for you.
Another thing I did not mention, is in the northwest corner, a person sells some items. You can't sell anything back, but if you have gold to spare, now is your chance. You won't be getting another any time soon, trust me.
They sell meganets, super encounter downs, mighty herbs, and total cures. All of these are quite useful.
Alright, let's go back to that person blocking the tree.
Retrace your steps by heading east, and once you find the eastern wall, head south. A gap will be in the eastern wall, so head east through it.
Once you can go north, do so. At the next northern wall, head east, and follow the eastern wall south until you can actually head east further.
Once you reach the eastern wall, head south, and when you can travel east again, head east.
You will be able to head north quite abruptly, so start heading gnorth. Once you reach the northern wall, you are looking for a gap near the eastern wall. Once you find it, head north through it.
And now we are back by the entrance, so I'll copy my path from above to direct you to the tree.
From the entrance, stick to the northern wall, and head east. Once it opens up, head north, then almost immediately start heading east.
A gap will open up in the northern wall again, so head through it, and stick to the western wall.
Eventually the surface will change, and you will hear this no-nonsense individual. Go north, and interact with him.
Yup, you smell something all right. It's the flower you want so badly. Take it.
And then he vanishes. Which means we can now climb up the tree, so up we go!

In this area, you will finally hear more people. These are tamers.
Whether you head north or south, you will arrive at the tree eventually either way, since it circles back around.
In the case you do want to go south, there is a ninja you can fight.
You have never entered a... nevermind. Let's just, get this over with, shall we?

@Ninja Kid Nathan
Schemu is level 39
Tigrath is level 37
Wow, that's just rude.

We are going to head north in this guide.
From the tree, head east, following the northern wall. When it opens up, head north to face off against probably the first tamer we have seen in ages. And I mean a regular tamer, not an oghminion or eshconite.
I don't know what you mean by good old days, but okay.

@Countryman Eddy
Quartantula is level 38
Rumblebee is level 38
Wow. Twenty-one? Okay then.

Head north of Eddy just a step or two, then start traveling east, sticking to the southern wall. Once it opens up, head north.
I'm not sure what's more funny, a ninja wrestler, or a wrestler ninja.

@Ninja Kid Ida
Rumblebee is level 39
Kangard is level 38
Kangard is level 38
Rumblebee is level 39
I never thought that.

Head north of Ida, then when you reach the northern wall, head east a few steps. Once the northern wall disappears, continue north.
At the next northern wall, follow it east, and we will confront the next tamer.

Let me learn you something? Is that even proper grammar?

@Country Boy Jay
Mortrex is level 37
Friggle is level 39
Limtoroom is level 38
Not only that, but you have perhaps the most strangest team I've seen in this game.

From Jay, head south. If you bump into the southern wall, head west a little bit to find a gap, then proceed through it.
Don't go too far south. Instead, start heading east and stick to the wall in front of you.
Once you reach the eastern wall, head south. Upon reaching the southern wall, head west, and a gap will appear in the southern wall. Take that gap south.
We are now going to fight our next tamer.
Aww. I'm really sorry. But someone like you should not be hanging out in a rainforest.

@Kindergartner Mary
Jimitron is level 40
I certainly would, that's for sure.
And she disappears. Good luck, young tamer.

Head south, and you will eventually hear water to the east. It's probably familiar from places such as the water stadium and the wilderness.
There will be a small gap between the water and the northern wall. Find it, then head east.
Once you are able to go north, do so. You will be in a little dirt-like area. Located in the northeastern corner of this area is a very essential item in this game. It's Swim Gear.
There are a bunch of places in this game where instead of walking, you need to swim. Remember, there were times where it said the water is too deep to walk in. This time, it will ask you if you want to swim.
Swimming won't actually change how you move, it'll just change where you move.
To test this out, let's go over to the water that is located to the east. Interact with it, and when prompted, select Yes to enter.
In this area are a pair of boxing gloves, which boost the power of fighting type attacks by 25 percent, with no penalties. Toss this on a good fighting type, and you are good to go.
If you would like, head south through the water against the eastern wall. Upon reaching the southern wall, swim west
You will start to hear a sprinkling sound, or as the tamer said back when we challenged the Solphoa Stadium, a dirt-like sound. Whenever you hear this sound, it means it is an exit point. Exit from the water, and head west.
We are going to use this as a shortcut.
Head to the western body of water, and interact with it, and swim west all the way to the opposite side.
This is where we started heading east in the tight gap, back when we didn't have the gear. This time, head west to the next body of water, and swim all the way west. We will encounter our next tamer here.
Oh that's nice. I honestly haven't been fishing in a long time. Should probably get around to it at some point. But I digress.

@Fisher Annie
Angillish is level 39
Fyngon is level 39
Sorry for your loss.

The platform will change into grass, so start heading west, sticking to the northern wall for guidance.
Once the northern wall disappears, head north to keep it in front of you, then continue west.
If you fought the ninja, you will hear him coming up. Otherwise, you will fight him (see the fight above).
When the northern wall ends, head north, and you will hear the tree again. Let's climb back down.

This time, rather than going southwest, we are going to head southeast. However, let's get back to the cave entrance first.
Head back south, and when a gap opens in the western wall, take it west.
Almost immediately start going south once you reach the next wall, and head west, as the wall will abrutply end.
Now we are back at the entrance.
Alright, this time, it's going to be a bit different.
We will take our usual route south. However, we are going to change things up a little.
Once you reach the southern wall and then step west, we will continue south. However, this time, we are going to stick to the eastern wall.
Once the eastern wall disappears, head east and follow it. When you reach the next eastern wall, head south, and you will hear a body of water to your right.
Swim east, and when you get out on the opposite side, keep following the northern wall east.
Once you reach the eastern wall, follow it south, and you will hear the sound of a map transition.
Before we can actually fully enter the map though, we have another cutscene of Rena talking to herself, trying to decide whether she should forgive her father or not.

_Mamish Outskirts
Manamon Available On Land: Owlex, Terruffalo, Sheepit, Schemu, Folimoss, Thundercolt
Manamon Available in Water: Flounger, Fingon, Luscish
Good news, we are out of that ridiculous rainforest. Bad news, we are not quite done yet.
I'm afraid we still have quite a long journey ahead. So let's go.
Head north. When you reach the water, begin swimming north.
Head toward the northern wall, then follow it east for the first tamer.
I wasn't thinking that you meant manamon fish to begin with.

@Fisher Chantal
Flounger is level 39
Fyngon is level 39
Flounger is level 39
I'm sorry. Wish we did. I hope you get some food soon though.

Take a few steps, strokes, oh whatever. Head east just a little bit, then head north through the gap.
When you reach the next northern wall, follow it west. When it opens up, head west until you reach the western wall.
Follow the western wall north, and when it opens up, head west. At the next western wall, follow it north.
Once a gap in the western wall appears, head west. Go all the way to the western wall, then start heading north for the next tamer.
Or thief, rather...
Nope, mine. Mine mine mine! Mine being I'm writing this guide, yours being you are reading it.

@Thief Steven
Sirennet is level 39
Bearran is level 40
Wavotamus is level 40
Now that's just rude.

Heading east, you will find a nurse who is willing to heal you up, if you battle them.

@Nurse Milly
Sacroloon is level 40
Clubbull is level 40
Awesome!

Don't bother heading out of the water north. It is a gate, and we are not allowed to go through yet.
Now with your fully healed team, as well as mine, head east, for our next tamer.
Oof, that sucks.

@Fisher May
Miterosier is level 40
Niamanja is level 40
I'm sure you will.

Head east for a very long time. Do not head south, just keep going until you reach the eastern wall.
Once you finally reach it, start heading south, and when a gap opens up in the wall, take it east.
At the next eastern wall, follow it south. When you reach the southern wall, swim west a little bit until you find a gap. Only head south a few steps, and then head west to find the western wall.
Now, travel south along the western wall. Eventually a gap will appear in the wall, so take it.
Once you reach the next western wall, follow it south. When you reach the southern wall, travel east.
Ignore the opening to the south. Keep to the northern wall, and when you reach the eastern wall, travel south along it.
When agap appears in the eastern wall, take it east, and stick to the northern wall. When the northern wall ends, head north.
You will start to hear the familiar sound of land, so head onto it.
There is a nurse here you can fight, but you can also avoid them completely if you think you will be fine.
Destry Destry? Okay then.

@Nurse Destry
Bulderdash is level 42
Okay, they thankfully do heal you.

If you did fight Destry, or you read the fight, you will know that they said something about a cave. This cave is up ahead, so travel north until you hear an entrance, and then head in.

_Great Cave Geodaehan
Manamon Available on Land: Sullorb, Promolder, Limewurm
Upon entering the cave, you will hear a ladder. Head for it, then climb up.
After that, there will be a second ladder, so go ahead and climb up that one as well.
At the next section, there will be a body of water. Get in, then swim west. Find the exit to the north and get out.
From the water, head all the way north to encounter another ladder. Climb up.
There will be an item directly in front of you. It's a Spirit Staff, which allows a manamon to hit ghost types with attacks which would not normally work on them. The drawback is that the damage it does is not very effective. It has no penalties.
Head to the eastern wall, then follow it north. When it opens up, head east.
Eventually you will be able to head north through the narrow gap, so go through it.
Ignore the first gap in the eastern wall, it's a dead end. Instead keep traveling north. The gap you want is the next one, but there is a chest at the northern end containing 5 fliers. Snag those if you wish.
As you travel east, you will eventually start hearing a low dinging sound. Manamon 1 players may remember this. For those that do not, or have not played Manamon 1, this is a manhole cover.
Once you reach it, press Enter to head through.

_Abandoned Shrine
When you head in, immediately head north and into the next area of the shrine.
Next, head slightly east to avoid the northern wall (assuming there was one in front of you) then travel north to the next northern wall.
Once you reach it, follow it west, ignoring the gaps that come up.
When you reach the western wall, you can go two ways.
Heading south, which will be very helpful, you will find a manalith healing unit. Use it if you have to.
Finally, whether you used it or not, head north until you reach the next northern wall, then travel east along it.
Once the northern wall opens up, head north. Upon reaching the next one, head east until you hit the eastern wall.
Follow it south, then when you are able to go east, do so. You will start to hear another entrance to the north. Head through it.
In this section, there is no audible floor whatsoever. In fact, you are floating.
You must follow a certain path in order to reach your destination, otherwise you will fall and return to the entrance.
I'm not sure if it is randomized or not, but here is the path I took. Don't rely on it, as it may change.
Head all the way to the western wall.
Take 4 steps forward.
1 step right.
2 steps forward.
1 step left.
12 steps forward.
You will notice a gap to the west, assuming your back is pressed to the southern wall.
5 steps left.
1 step forward.
1 step left.
All the way forward until you hit the northern wall.
1 step right.
Forward, up the stairs.

_Abandoned Shrine F2
We are on solid ground now.
Head west from the stairs, and eventually...
Goodness! It's a manamon that clearly we haven't heard of, or heard from, before. Well I have, but you probably haven't.
Then, reality seems to vanish, and you find yourself in an all too familiar spot.
You finally get to see yourself get knocked out, and how you reached the old cave. Sit back, scroll through, and enjoy.
Also, you find out the name of this manamon is Hathorilian.
As much as she saved your life though, you will want to save it by yourself this time. And yes, I mean save.
Now, travel west a bit further, and get ready for a battle.

@@Hathorilian
Level: 30
This manamon is quite annoying to deal with. Again, treat it as a hyper, since you can't do a whole lot to it such as put it to sleep, for example.
Every once and awhile, it will place what are called boom boxes on the field. And no, they don't play music. They either blow you up, or hurt Hathorilian.
Every time it places these boxes, you must alternatve between the boxes you hit. For instance, if you hit box number 2 the previous time, do not hit box number 2 again. Instead, hit number 1.
Hitting the same box will kill the manamon that you have on the field.
Note that it doesn't matter which box you hit the first time. Just make sure that you keep the same pattern throughout the match.
You will gain a decent amount of EXP after this battle.

She just casually stays there, staring at you. You ask for answers. Then, yet another glimpse of an event.

_Requia
You are now embodying a young girl located in Requia. You will know this place later. That being said, no exploration or layouts provided for now.
Head to the eastern wall, then follow it south.
Quick dialogue. Master? The master? I wonder who that master is...
When the eastern wall opens up, continue east. We will be heading to that temporary home.
At the next eastern wall, follow it south. When it opens up, head east.
You will eventually reach a building. Head inside.

_Ondermore's House
After the short dialogue, head further into the house. You will hear a bed to the east, so interact with it.
When it asks are you ready to sleep, select Yes.
Eventually, you will hear the muffled call of none other than Hathorilian.
Ondermore goes to investigate what the sound is, and then he screams, followed shortly by you screaming his name. Clearly something went amiss outside the house. But before we can find out more, the scene goes black.

_Back in Abandoned Shrine F2
Wow, talk about answers. And then she fades away.
Head all the way to the western wall, then travel north.
When the eastern wall opens up, head east. You will hear a chest, and a teleporter.
The chest contains a Quennsette Scimitar. It boosts air or fighting type moves if your manamon is either, or it boosts both if it is air and fighting. It has no penalties.
In order to get to the teleporter, we must go back to the western wall, then travel south. This time, follow the northern wall, and when it abrutply ends, head north.
Now, we will be located behind the chest, but in front of the teleporter. Take it.

_Back in Great Cave Geodaehan
You will find yourself outside of the shrine. Now, let's retrace our steps.
Travel all the way west, then head all the way south.
Follow the southern wall all the way west, then head all the way south.
You will ehar the ladder to the west, so take it down.
Now, travel all the way back south, until you reach the body of water. Swim east, then get out to arrive at the next ladder, and climb down.
Head south to the next ladder, then climb down again.
Finally, head out the entrance of the cave.

_Back in Mamish Outskirts
Travel south. When you reach the body of water, interact wiht it, and a man will stop you. He pitys you, and takes you to a village. This is behind the gate that you were unable to go through.

_Mamia
You come in on a celebration dance that is about to end. It eventually dies down, and you get to stay at a man's house as a guest.

_Benjamin's House
The person who you are staying with goes by the name of Benjamin.
There is not a whole lot here, but I'll point it out anyway.
Near the northern wall is Benjamin, saying he has a meeting.
Trying to head out says that you need to get cleaned up.
The only other thing you can interact with in this house is a bucket of water, which is against the western wall. This is how you will get cleaned up. No bathroom or any of that. I find the dialogue quite hilarious.
Alright, now we can leave.

_Mamia
Immediately when you exit the house, you will bump into another person. Yup, looks like Mercilla isn't the only one.
Apparently she is an actress, who was in a documentary about the Shadow Warriors. Manamon 1 players know who they are.
Apparently they are filming a movie about Mamish civilization, and she's here for a preliminary one.
She also has a phone, which is at the hotel!
Before we head in that direction, let's head to a place that is also important.
Head west of Benjamin's, and follow the building north. You will bump into another building. The door will be to the west, so let's head in.

_Mamia's Manamon Marketplace
Finally, a marketplace!
In this marketplace, they have removed some of the lower level items such as standard herbs, strong herbs, and mananets. Things start from meganets, super encounter downs, and mighty herbs.
Sadly, they do not offer giganets here, but meganets can be helpful as well.
Additionally, there are some pieces of equipment you may like. Some you might have already seen before, but among them are some newer ones.

$Speed Anklet V2.0
This little anklet boosts speed by 15 percent. It's a bit less than the original version, but unlike the original, there are no penalties.
Hint: Colovaird may benefit from it.

$Yellow Star
Another nice piece of equipment that does not have any penalties. It boosts electric moves by 25 percent, making it ideal for any electric type manamon. If you want to give one of your manamon that extra oomph when using electric moves, slap this on it, and you're good to go.

$Holy Robe
This robe is also another piece of equipment that has no penalties. It makes a manamon immune to ghost moves. It doesn't really do anything other than that, but if you are getting tired of a manamon taking severe damage from ghost moves, such as having a double weakness, this robe may be helpful.

$Snow Shield
This shield lessens the damage of ice attacks by 20 percent. You can put it on a manamon that does not do very well against ice attacks and reduce the damage taken.

Alright, that's it. The other things you probably already know about, and have been covered earlier in the guide.
Buy what you want to buy, sell what you want to sell, and let's continue on our way.

The building we are really looking for is north of the marketplace.
We can't head around the marketplace to the west, so we need to head around it to the east. Follow the front of the building east, and when you can head north, do so.
Once the building ends, head west so that it is behind you. You will start to hear a door in front of you, so approach it.
Finally! Here goes...

_Namia's Mana Hotel
Gunshots, glass shattering, a person running away. You call that suicide?
Ah, typical police conclusions.
How on earth does someone break the window before they kill themself? And a person running off? Goodness.
Anyways, we have some work to do now. New quest, figure out who killed the actress.
But first, let's acknowledge the fact that there is actually a Mana Hotel here! About damn time!
No drawbacks either. Comes with a transportal, and the ability to once again, trade and battle.
Immediatley west of the door is the person who will ask you who you suspect was behind the murder. A text box will appear, and you will type their name. For now, however, you don't have any proof.
Let's head out.

Okay. So the way that this works is in order to get our evidence, we need to have a civil battle with a citizen, and get our answers that way. The culture is that you need to be a good communicator with your manamon.
They will tell you what they think immediately after the battle is over.
Upon exitting the hotel, head back east, and then through the narrow gap to the south, between Benjamin's house and the marketplace.
The first person we can battle is south of the marketplace.
I won't comment on these battles, just the answers they give. There's no reason to, If I'm being honest.

@Gentleman Adam
Jimitron is level 44
Hmm. That seems like a valid possibility.

Next in line, we have Benjamin. It's the closest, so let's head in.

_Back in Benjamin's House
If you head to Benjamin, you will get a long story about Namia's culture. He doesn't actually battle you, but it will uncover a bit more about their culture.

_Back in Namia
I didn't write about this earlier, but if you head east of Benjamin's and then north, you will find a Medical Miracle.
If you keep heading north, and then slightly east, we will face off against the next person.

@Gentleman Earl
Pyrefly is level 42
Symphonid is level 42
Sadly, he doesn't really know much. But you had to battle him anyway, it's the only way we can answer the question.

You can't head any further north, you'll be stopped by someone who informs you the celebration's over. We will be able to go here later.
If you travel south, past the house to your left, and then head east, we have our next person to battle.

@Gentleman Dale
Miterosier is level 42
Leonatar is level 43
Leonatar is level 43
Hmm, interesting. Now what exactly would Benjamin be doing just hanging around the hotel? Or could it possibly be Adam? He was the closest to the hotel. But Benjamin said he also had a meeting to attend. Things are getting interesting.

This time, head back to the hotel, then head south. You will find yourself on a different surface. 
The gate you hear behind you is the one you were unable to enter prior to being brought into Namia, but you can come and go as you please. If you would like to go train your manamon or catch some, feel free.
When you are able to go east, do so. You will hear another person that you can battle.

@Gentleman Tristan
Frenrir is level 43
Araknite is level 42
Orystar is level 43
Benjamin was agitated, and he seemed to think that actress' arrival was harmful? Now wait a minute. Who else could have decided to rid of her, that would have been the least likely suspect, but was also near the hotel?
But maybe that's the point. We wouldn't think it was the one we fought by the marketplace. But that's close enough, right? And they look similar to Benjamin.
Which brings us to a conclusion.
It was most likely the person standing near that location. The person that was closest to that location, was Adam.
Let's go back and report this conclusion.
Head back west, and then travel north to the hotel.

_Back in Namia's Mana Hotel
Now, head to the person who is west of the door.
Save, hit Enter, and type Adam.
There's evidence. It all adds up. And as a result? Benjamin, is, pissed!
Time for an aggressive battle.

@Gentleman Benjamin
Grandlan is level 44
Colovaird is level 44
Tarboo is level 45
Jimitron is level 44
Damn. Talk about some disrespect. Wait, some? That's an understatement. Pure disrespect!

Well, would you look at that. You've barely been here for very long and you've already become the hero of Namia. Sadly, a hero to some is not always a hero to others.
We are almost there. Logan will take us to a place called Aimort Plateau, which will help us get back to Kiarre. We are currently in the country of Quennsette, which is certainly not where we want to be.
At the time of this guide, there is no Manamon 3. Although if there ever is one, which seems quite unlikely right now, I hope that it may be located in Quennsette. It would be a nice story to witness the opposite side.
Don't bother going to go see Benjamin again. Interacting with him literally does nothing. No words, no sound, nothing.
Anyways, let's get going. Heal at the hotel, stock up at the marketplace, and we're out!

In case you are wondering why I'm suddenly shortening things in the guide, it's because I have assumed you know the drills by now. After all, we have been through several locations and cities that it has probably become a natural task.

_Leaving Namia
Remember that area we couldn't go to that was north of Benjamin's? We can head there now.
Head past Earl, and you will step on a dirt-like surface. Start heading east once you are able to do so, as the wall that sticks out is just a little lip.
Don't head too far east. Start heading north, and you will find an entrance to a building. Let's head in.

_Logan's House
This is your ticket to the plateau, between Quennsette and Kiarre.
Again, make sure you have supplies and whatnot, as we are going to be on the plateau for a bit. Not as long as the trip from the rainforest, but still a long time.
Once you are sure you are ready, head to Logan. He's positioned east of the door. Interact with him, and when he asks if you are ready, select Ready.
And we're off! Goodbye, Namia.

_Aimort Plateau
Manamon Available: Ghoperto, Pyrefly, Viralite, Corpscat, Artisoul

#Artisoul
This is a quite interesting standard type. It has the ability Portrait, which makes it switch to the opposin'g manamon's type when it is brought out. This can be useful at times, but also dangerous in the wrong situations. After all, would you want your standard type to become a ghost type when the opponent's manamon is also a ghost type?
Artisoul doesn't really get a whole lot in terms of good moves. I'd say it's a decent standard type, but I wouldn't really rely on it too much just yet, emphasis on yet.
This manamon also comes up later, which is both good news and bad news.

Wow. This had to be quite the battle to cause such a devastated wasteland. But here we are.
Let's focus on getting back.
You have two choices.
If you are insistant on making it back to Kiarre, head south, and through the gap in the southern wall which is located to the east. When you are able to go west, head west.
When you reach the western wall, head south, and when you can go west again, do so.
You will eventually transition into the next location, there will be no chimes or any of that.
However, if you would rather stay and fight the people in this area, and also collect all the items it has to offer, you can do that as well, as documented below.
Once Logan departs, head west to the western wall, then follow it north.
When it opens up, don't head west quite yet. Instead, head east, and snag the Soulless Heartstone.
Now, head back west, and you will find a tamer.
Oof. Specifically one who is seeking revenge on any Kiarrian she can find due to her son's death, until she dies.
Well, I guess we have no choice.

@Old Woman Lorraine
Jagzeom is level 40
I don't know a whole lot about Quennsette, so I wouldn't know. Sorry.

Head west of Lorraine, and then head north, sticking to the eastern wall. When it ends, head east.
When you reach the next eastern wall, follow it north for another tamer, who is running in place.
Ooo, give me!

@Guitarist Regina
Tylavile is level 41
Damn it!
No, you do not actually get an e-mail with the CD. Sorry.

Head north, but do not stick to the eastern wall. Instead, veer a little left, and you will eventually be able to head north through a gap. In the case you do follow the eastern wall, just go south a bit along the western wall, then when it opens up, head west.
Nice to meet you Romeo! I'm Tunmi, the main author of this guide!
Oh wait, sorry. I think you should be the one to introduce yourself, not me. Let's do it with a battle, shall we?

@Tough Guy Romio
Fyrate is level 42
Kangachan is level 41
You do that.

If you head north of Romeo for a bit, and then head slightly east, you will find a Mighty Herb.
In the location you find the herb, follow the eastern wall south, and veer west past that little lip in the wall. You will come to find another item, which is an Aura Potion.
Head south until a gap appears in the eastern wall, and then head east. At the next eastern wall, head south.
At the southern wall, take a few steps west, then continue south. When you can go east, do so.
Upon reaching the next eastern wall, follow it south.
Stick to the western wall as you head south, and when it ends, head west. A gap will appear in the wall to the north, so take it.
As you head north, you will hear an item to the west. Head toward it, and take it. It's a Medical Miracle.
Once you reach the rocks, you will notice its familiarity. You are now in the general area of where you were dropped off at. We did a full rotation around the map.
That being said, I will now copy the route back from the beginning of this section.
Head south back through that gap. When you are able to go west, head west. Remember, we came from the east, so we are now going the opposite way.
When you reach the western wall, head south, and when you can go west again, do so.
You will eventually transition into the next location, there will be no chimes or any of that.
And look where we end up at!

_Back in Springdale Turf
We're back in Kiarre!
Now before we celebrate, let's remember that our pocket copter is gone. That being said, we can't just copter back into Seulee. We need to walk.
Let's go grab some items first, then we'll get out of here.
Head west from the plateau, sticking to the southern wall. When it ends, head south.
You'll quickly bump into the next wall to the south, so follow it east. Once you can go south, do so, and then continue along the eastern wall.
The eastern wall will disappear, so start heading east until you reach the next eastenr wall.
Take a few steps south, and grab the Life Tonic.
Head to the southern wall, then follow it west. When it opens up, continue heading south.
At the next southern wall, follow it west, and when you are able to go south, do so.
Upon reaching the next southern wall, follow it west as well, and then when you reach the western wall, take a step or two north.
Now, head west through the gap, and you will hear an item. It's a Sheepskin outfit. It boosts stats for wolf manamon, feel free to read its description for who benefits from it.
Now, head back east, and stick to the northern wall. It will veer slightly at one point, so simply stick to it.
Once you are able to go north, head north until you reach the next northern wall. Follow it east, and when it ends, continue north.
At the next northern wall, head west, and then continue north, sticking to the eastern wall. You may have to do some diagonal movement, so west, north, west, north, etc.
Suddenly, the platform will change. From here, head west until you reach the western wall, then follow it north.
Once you reach the northern wall, follow it east, and when you can go north again, do so.
You will eventually here water. Swim north slightly, then head west.
Once you get out of the water, stick to the northern wall, and travel west. You will eventually hear a tree. Use your rope to climb up.
From the tree, head east, and you will be sandwiched between the north and south wall. Once you can head north, continue in that direction.
Eventually, you will be able to head east, so continue east until you reach the eastern wall. 
Do not go for the gap closest to the wall, it's a dead end. Instead, head for the first one that appears to the north, and continue north.
Finally, head east, and we are finally back!

_Back in Seulee City
Rena has been looking all over for you, and you need to sit down, rest, and have some water. Let's head over to the diner.

_Back in Suelee's Madam Boveel's
Walk north, and the scene will trigger automatically.
Rena is right. Oghma must be stopped. That ring meant something significant. Before Byron decided to hit us with a pole, we didn't get to learn much about the machine, but clealry he's up to something.
Rena will also give you what is known as a gamanet, and her pocket copter. 
A gamanet is a powerful net, in fact it is the most powerful net in the game. It never fails to catch a manamon. It will always work. However, keep in mind you only get one of these. Don't go using this on the weakest manamon you can find!
Alrighty! Now that we have a pocket copter, we are good to go! Step out of Boveel's.

%Upcoming Sections
Alright guys. Before we continue, I have some warnings.
From here, things only get harder to write about. Some of the things that will present itself require speed, accuracy, and timing.
That being said, please do not hold me responsible for anything that happens.

Alright. So some advice. Get all the healing supplies you need. Level up your manamon to, I'd say, the late 40s. We will be going to an even more dangerous place.
The machine in Oghma's house is no longer functional, so let's rewind.
Remember that buzzing sound in Dyeur Hills that I previously told you to avoid? Doesn't it sound similar to the one in the house?
That's because it is! And we are going to use it!
If you remember, Dyeur Hills is located in Brytanburg South. Since I'm sure you already know the way, seeing as we have visited Brytanburg like a million times now, I'll skip right to that section.

_Back in Dyeur Hills
I'm going to be lazy and copy and paste from when we were previously in Dyeur Hills. With of course, tamers and whatnot omitted.
From the gate, head west a ways. Ignore the first southern gap, and head west a bit further until you reach the second one.
Start heading south, and past Jude.
Move around Jude to the east, then head in that direction. Use the northern wall for guidance, and when you reach the next eastern wall, follow it south.
It will end abruptly, so head east onto a dirt-like surface. When you reach the next eastern wall, head south along it. You will start to hear the next tamer, which we have already fought, so skip.
Head a bit south (ignore the little gap in the corner), then head west, following the southern wall. Once it disappears, head south and follow it, it will now be a wall to the east.
You will reach another wall to the south. Follow it west, and a gap will open up to the north. Take it, and go by the next tamer.
Once you reach the next southern wall, start heading west.
Before being sandwiched between the two walls, head north to the next gap, and snag 1000 gold.
Eventually you will be sandwiched between two walls, but continue west anyway.
Once the northern wall opens up, head north, and stick to the eastern wall. You will eventually reach the northern wall, so follow it west, and you will start to hear another tamer, who we've already fought.
Ignore that strange buzzy sound ahead of you. That's going to be important later.
Just joking. It's important right now!
Save, and let's do this.
Of course it looks identical to the one in Oghma's house. It sounds the same, too. But sadly, we can't get in. There's a solution to that though.
We smash it!

@Evil Machine
Level: 50
I didn't put two at symbols here. This thing doesn't necessarily attack back, or do any sort of damage to you.
It does, however, regain health. And if you are not selective with your attacks, it will simply gain its health back.
When I mean selective, I mean using the same moves with every manamon constantly. In this battle, you want to switch up your attacks, because the machine will adapt to them and heal up accordingly.
That being said, smash this hunk of junk.

Oghma Studio Protection Gateway has encountered an error.
Error, error, error.

_Eternity Studio
Yup, error out. Thank you.
Okay, this is probably going to be one of the most difficult places I have to guide you through. Like I said above, what comes next in Manamon is all about timing, accuracy, and precision. It also involves a lot of exploring, fallbacks, etc.
That being said, I hope that this still helps. But I'm trying my best here.
Notice that if you want to go back, there is a teleporter you can take. This will be useful if you want to go back for supplies, or just take a break.
The machine will always work now, since you've breeched it. So don't worry about smashing it anymore.
But I'm afraid this guide takes you deeper into the studio, not out.
Enough rambling. Let's go.
Head west until you hear a gap in the northern wall, but do not go north!
Do you hear those lasers? You must cross over when they are not active, or the first manamon in your party that has not been knocked out will have half of their health reduced, then if they are hit again, since two shots are fired, they will actually get knocked out.
This process will continue until your entire party is out, in which case you will return to the last healing spot.
To avoid this predicament, wait for the laser sounds to disappear, then take a few steps forward to avoid their wrath.
Do not go too far north, there is another one up ahead. When it stops trying to zap you, go past it until you hit the northern wall, then head west.
When the northern wall opens up, head north. You will start to hear tamers, ahem! I mean oghminions.
And you are foolish to trifle with us, considering you were cowards to disable the other machine.
And the second one has no self esteem whatsoever.
Note: 2 on 2.

@Oghminions Savista and Mia
Savista's Duskond is level level 44 and Mia's Venomander is level 44
Savista's Zintrabat is level 44 and Mia's Banshreek is level 44
These two are not compatible. Get lost and I suck do not go together, at all.

After those two are gone, head north, and proceed up the ladder.

_Eternity Studio F2
You may hear a new rumbling sound. These are cannons.
These function just like boxes, but they do the opposite when standing on different sides.
If you are in front of it, you will be launched forward.
If you are behind it, you will be launched backward.
If you are to the left, you will be launched left.
If you are to the right of it, you will be launched right.
Sometimes, you will hear a sort of error sound, meaning the cannon does not take you in that specific direction.
There is also a person to the southwest who explains this, then chides themself for giving you that information.
Keep in mind for the cannons, I will be using left, right, backward and forward to make it easier.
Alright, let's start propelling ourselves!
Launch yourself right with the cannon. At the next one, launch yourself backward.
In this area, head south, then east. Grab that Healing Mist, which will completely heal your entire party's hit points.
Now head back to that cannon. Notice the only space you have is for a forward launch, so do exactly that.
We are now back to that cannon that launched us backward. This time, launch left so we can go back to the ladder.
Now we are back at the cannon we took that was north of the ladder. Launch yourself left, and there will be another cannon a bit behind you. Find its left side, and launch left again.
When you land, you will instantly be confronted by an oghminion.
The cannons are indeed fun! Why do you have to take me to Oghma, I want to keep messing with them!

@Oghminion Janava
Niamanja is level 42
Wolfsyre is level 41
Zintrabat is level 42
Zintrabat is level 42
You really shouldn't.

Launch right, and you will be placed to the right of the next cannon. Head north around it, then put it behind you. Launch yourself forward, and you will star to hear a teleporter and an item.
Take a step north, and the item is to your immediate east. It's a Medical Miracle.
Take the teleporter, which will take you back to the first cannon we used.
Truth is, there's not only one cannon in here.
Head east of the ladder, and then south. You will run into another cannon. Launch yourself backward wiht it.
Now, start heading south, keeping to the eastern wall. When you reach the southern wall, travel along it west.
Once a gap appears in the southern wall, take it south, still following the eastern wall. When the platform changes, start heading west. You will hear a ladder that goes back down, so let's take it.

_Eternity Studio
What a rude way to be confronted. Upon your descent, an oghminion is waiting for you.
And their line is get out of here.

@Oghminion Hane
Zintrabat is level 43
Grimident is level 43
You already tried, and failed.

There is a bed here you can use to heal your manamon, so if you need it, go ahead and use it.
If you head all the way south, and all the way east, you will find an Update Installer. Where you at, Montor?
I'm guessing this is like some sort of bedroom or something. There is nothing else here, so let's head back up.

_Back in Eternity Studio F2
Head east, and when you are able to go north, do so. Make sure you are up against the eastern wall when you head north.
When the eastern wall veers, head back west to the western wall, then head north to bump into the back of the cannon.
Head around it to the front, then launch backward to return to the first area.
This time, head east to the eastern wall. You are searching for a gap with a different platform. Once you find it, head north.
Notice how with this cannon, you can only launch left, or backward. We can launch forward, but we need to get on the opposite side of this wall.
Head south until you hear a gap in the eastern wall. Take it east, and then when it opens up, head north.
Stick to the western wall, and when it vanishes, head west.
You will notice that the cannon is now behind you. Launch forward.
Now go to the next cannon, which is near the eastern wall and to the north. There are two other cannons around here, but those don't really go anywhere special, so make sure you are aiming for the correct cannon.
Take this cannon backward. If it was the correct cannon, you will find yourself sandwiched between two walls.
Now, head east from the cannon, and when you are able to go south, do so. Ignore the cannon against the western wall.
I'd save here, things are going to get a bit interesting.
Do not go south too far, as you have another laser to go past. Time it right!
Do not go even further south after the laser. You have electricity that moves from right to left. You must pass by this electricity when it's Not immediately behind you. Similar to the laser, if you get hit by this twice, it'll take out the first alive manamon in your party.
After you get past the electricity, do not go too far south, as there is yet another laser. Try to get past it.
Now you should be by the southern wall. There is a cannon in the corner, but it only goes left.
Get on its left side, then launch yourself left. You'll go flying quite a ways, then down a hole and into the next area.

_Eternity Studio
If you take a few steps east, you will find a chest to your immediate south. Open it to obtain a Holy Artifact.
Head all the way to the eastern wall, and follow it south. When it ends, head east to face off against another oghminion.
What if I don't want to run?

@Oghminion Vartuus
Shadyena is level 43
Ratiera is level 42
You already lost it.

Head east, and up the ladder.

_Eternity Studio F3
This is probably one of my least favorite floors in the studio. You will see why.
You will be whisked away from the entrnace by a conveyor belt. AKA, you are not coming back this way.
Now, head all the way south. Do not take the conveyor belt on the left, by any means! If you want to find out why I said not to, save, and try it.
Instead, we want to head through the door.

Only take a few steps south in this room. Notice that there is electricity. It moves pretty quickly too.
First, run past the electricity when it is not behind you, all the way south.
Now, head east along the southern wall. Notice how you hear a forcefield, and a laser. You also hear a switch.
Once you reach the eastern wall, the switch will be to your right, but one step in front of you. You know what else is one step in front of you? The current!
Your goal is to take a step forward, bump into the switch, flick it, then quickly step back before the current can touch you. This will then deactivate the forcefield.
I would save here just in case you screw up a few times.
If you successfully got the forcefield down, wait for the current to move, then take a few steps north so it is behind you.
Notice that there is a laser to the right. Wait until it stops, then take a few steps east.
Do not go too far east, but go east just enough for the southern wall to open up.
You will hear a section of the floor that is electrified. To bypass this, head all the way south, then start moving east. When you reach the eastern wall, follow it north.
Do not step left by any means, you will start being zapped.
When the eastern wall opens up, start heading east.
In this area, you will notice multiple boxes, which have all been arranged in a sort of vertical fashion. The issue is that there are some boxes on the outside of this vertical alignment, which must be moved in order to expose the gap in the eastern wall. To do this, we need to move the rightmost box.
First, head south to the southern wall, and push the box that is against that wall east.
Second, make your way around the boxes, until you are north of them. When they are to the south, push them south.
Finally, take a step south yourself, then take a step east. A box will be behind you, so push it south.
Now, head south a little, then head east through the narrow gap.
Do not head east all the way, you will hear a current, and it is aligned with you!
Go ahead and save, then listen. Notice how the current is moving left to right. However, rather than being behind or in front of you, it is directly to your right.
Your goal is to wait for the current to be as far away as possible. Then, dash east, and then dash north once the northern wall opens up.
If you are desperate for the item to the south, the process is a bit different. Make sure all your manamon are healthy.
Wait for the current to receed, then dash east. Listen closely for a gap in the southern wall. Quickly dash through it, grab the Max U P Restorative, then dash back north. You may knock out some manamon in the process.
Either way, you will run into a conveniently placed healing unit. Use it if you got your team zapped a few times, or it got zapped mostly senseless.
Now, head east to the eastern wall. We still have business with this good-for-nothing current.
Make sure the current is as far away as possible, then quickly head south. There will be a gap in the eastern wall, so take it. You should now be free of the electricity.
Don't head east too far, just enough to head north, and stick to the western wall.
When it disappears, head west.
WOOSH, THUMP!
Great. More invisible oghminions. Definitely on the bucket list! Not.
Oh yes I do!

@Oghminion Jesafett
Vishthaugh is level 45
Yeah, that had to hurt.

You want to head north, but not all the way to the northern wall. Keep east, and then eventually you will be able to head east. Stick to the southern wall, and when it ends, head south.
When you reach the next southern wall, follow it east, and when it ends, head south.
Ignore the gap to the west, and keep heading south. You will eventually reach a cannon. Launch yourself right with it.
You will now hear a whizzing sound. Save, because this is where time and speed comes in.
Go over to the whizzing. You will hear Aaron say, "you are now being protected from the lasers."
At this point, take two steps north, then run east to the cannon. Launch yourself left.
Once you finish flying, find the next cannon on your left. Go around it, and launch yourself left again.
You will hear yourself flying past all the things we went through, and you will end up to the right of the door.
Quickly leave the room.

Now, run west, and board the conveyor belt. Then sit back, and watch the lasers assault your barrier. Ah, the humor!
After the intense display of being blasted to shreds if not for Aaron's kind-hearted demeanor, you will be dropped off safely on the other side.
In the case protection ends while you are on the belt, or you don't make it in time, simply reload your save and try again.
Now, head south, and follow the southern wall east to the next ladder.

_Eternity Studio F4
Again, one of my most least favorite levels.
Keep to the western wall, and when it opens up, travel west. It will come up again, so travel south and then west again.
Follow the northern wall west, and when you are able to go north, do so.
Against the eastern wall will be a switch. Flip it.
Now go all the way south, and head west to flip the other switch. This will deactivate the forcefield to the west.
Now, follow the western wall north. When it opens up, head west.
You will start to hear a variety of beeps and other ambiguous tones. This is a decimal to binary calculator. Type in any value, and it will convert it into binary numbers. You will know why we need this soon enough.
Now head all the way east of the calculator until you reach the eastern wall, then follow it north. When you are able to go east again, do so.
Ignore the gap to the south, and instead continue east until you can go north.
Sitting at the end of this space is a piece of paper with the number 76 written on it.
But writing 76 is too easy, isn't it? Of course it is! Hence why you are required to write 76, in binary!
No worries, I'll assist, in case you are too lazy to use the calculator which is quite far, especially the deeper you go into this studio.
Anyways, retrace your steps back south, and when you are able to head west, travel west.
You will eventually arrive back at the ladder. Start heading south, and you will find the door.
The number is 76, but in binary, it is the following.
01001100
If entered correctly, you will head through the door automatically.

In this room, head west pretty much all the way, then head south to face off against an oghminion.
What paper? ooo, does it have a number on it?
And then another one just has to appear to join the fight. Well, so much for 1 on 1.

@Oghminions Zelfirth and Xuluer
Zelfirth's Sansurgion is level 44 and Xuluer's Furivia is level 43
Zelfirth's Ratiera is level 44 and Xuluer's Furivia is level 43
Xuluer's Furivia is level 43
Xuluer's Furivia is level 43
The hell are you doing with four Furivias?

They do not, in fact, pick up that paper. Which means you know what the number is! 211!
Now, head back north, then east, until you are at the entrance.
Follow the northern wall east, and when it ends, head north.
Do not head north too far. I'm sure you know why by now. Lasers, and currents!
This is like the situation a little while back, except this time, the current is positioned in front of you, not off to your right.
To get past it, wait for the current to receed, then dash north. Listen for a gap in the western wall, and take it, before you get zapped.
Now, head to the northern wall, and follow it west. When it opens, continue north.
Stick to the eastern wall, and we are going to start zigzagging a little. When the eastern wall veers, head east. Keep going north, and it will veer again, so head east. North, east, north, etc.
When it evens out, follow the eastern wall south, and when you are able to go south, do so.
When you head south, you will quickly come in contact with the next wall to your south. Start heading west from here, and you will run into the right side of a cannon.
We want to launch to the left, so head south around the back of the cannon, and loop around so that it is to your right. Then, fire!
Now, follow the northern wall west. Ignore the cannon to your left, we don't need it anymore. Instead, find the opening in the northern wall, and keep heading north.
Once you reach the next northern wall, you will hear the door to your left. Find it, and interact with it.
In case you are wondering how I'm getting these answers, I might be using the NVDA Python Console. :P
The number is 211. Here is what it is in binary.
011010011

In the next room, you will have two things in front of you.
The first thing is a cannon. And in front of it, is a forcefield.
We need to disable the forcefield, and the cannon is pretty much our only way around at the moment.
Launch yourself left with the cannon.
An oghminion is behind you, but before you fight them, don't forget to grab the Optical Potion that's a bit northwest from your dropoff point.
I don't care. We're passing anyway.

@Oghminion Camandire
Frorgeril is level 45
Ninjarkin is level 45
Mondevol is level 45
Thank you very much.

Head back to that cannon, and launch yourself right with it to bring you back to the forcefield.
Don't bother launching yourself right with the forcefield's cannon, it takes you to this blank area.
Instead, launch yourself backward, and you will go sailing down a hole and into a different spot.

In this space, head north until you reach the northern wall, then follow it west. The western wall will come up quite fast, so start heading south immediately after this happens.
Once you reach the southern wall, follow it west. Ignore the gaps that present themselves, and continue all the way west to find a switch.
The forcefield in the prior area is now down.
Head back east to the eastern wall, then follow it north. When it opens up, head east along the northern wall for about a step or two, then start heading south.
When the eastern wall opens up, continue east. You will eventually find a teleporter that will take you back to the prior area.

Now that the forcefield is gone, get in front of the cannon, and have it launch you forward.
Now, save. Things depend on speed here.
Head up the ladder, and to probably the most annoying floor yet.


_Eternity Studio F5
Your goal on this floor is to run as fast as you can in under 40 seconds, using the high pitched sounds to speed you up.
The lower pitched sounds will only slow you down, so avoid those. Use your navigation skills to try and get through most of this space.
You are primarily aiming for the northwest area, so don't go east.
I can't really guide you through this, due to the time limit, because remember that I am also doing this. But hopefully this makes sense.
See you on the other side!
For another hyper.

@@Eternity Angel
Level: 50
This hyper is very annoying. When you attack it, it will counter your move with a type advantage attack.
For instance, if you use a plant type move on it, it may decide to counter with a flame one.
That being said, you need to be careful with your move selections, or you could kill your manamon quite easily.
One move you really need to watch out for that hurts like hell, is Iron Maiden. Steel types tend to learn this move later, but when coming from a hyper, it is going to pack quite a punch.
Again, it's a hyper, so things like putting it to sleep, draining its health, etc... put it out of your head.
You will get quite a load of experience for defeating this thing. It's about time too, considering the last few we've gotten rid of barely did anything.

Once you defeat it, you do not need to worry about running for your life anymore. The floor is clear.
Head north until you hit the northern wall, and follow it west. When it ends, head all the way north.
At the next northern wall, head east. When you reach the eastern wall, head north.
Once you reach the next northern wall, follow it west until you reach the western wall, then head north.
Coming up on the next northern wall, follow it east. When you reach the eastern wall, head north again.
Eventually, you will find yourself in wide open space. Simply continue north, and you will find a ladder. Center it, and climb up.

_Eternity Studio F6
Off the bat, there is a healing unit you can use. You probably need it.
When you have used it, head all the way north to the next ladder, and climb up.

_Eternity Studio F7
Head all the way north, and climb up the next ladder.

_Eternity Studio F8
There will be a large hole in front of you. Drop down.

_Back in Requia Gallery
Step backward to find the front of a cannon. Head around it so it is in front of you, and launch yourself backward. You will go flying across a conveyor belt, and then the game takes over.
From here, sit back and scroll through the dialogue.
Essentially, he starts showing you pictures of his daughter in different locations. The first one is just him and her gazing curiously out at the world. The second is her sitting on a... wait. Is that a throne? Are you serious?
Oghma dashes over, and inserts the artwork into the computer on your left, then runs back as if he's won a toy at a school carnival.
Now, by this point, I'm pretty sure you've got this all figured out.
Eshcon could make it rain because of the ruby in his ring. What do you think this will do, just by inserting a few paintings?
And now, he spills information about how he's been creating these so called creatures. And since he has been making them quite powerful, they've found their way into our dimension, to come and cause problems.
Then like a coward, he dives into the pocket dimension located in the computer.
But I guess you have no choice but to follow. head over to the super computer, and interact with it.
Keep in mind that when you are entering this dimension for the first time, you will have a really, and I mean really, long clip of what the world is like. So just sort of hang tight, and witness what happens. This will only happen once, however.

_Greater Catacombs
Start walking west, and a dialog will appear.
Good news and bad news.
Let's start with the good news, which is what the dialog says.
The MS drive now has a purpose.
For some magical reason, it can now work on the machine we used in Oghma's house. Talk about game logic.
For two, you can actually reach the gallery from the house itself, by going into the hideout through the machine and then using the MS Drive as a sort of teleporter.
And for three, you can also use it to warp out from the hideout, and back to the house itself.
Unfortunatley, I have some bad news to tell you guys, and I am very sorry.
The catacombs are not laid out the same for everybody.
That's right. Which means my layout is probably not your layout. It's save-generated.
That being said, I can't guide you through this place, however, I can provide you a general sense of direction on where you need to go to reach the next destination.
Your objective is to get to the western end of these catacombs to find an entrance to a hill.
As to how you will get there, it isn't the same process for everyone. So all I can really do is wish you luck.
There are plenty of items scattered around this place as well, so be sure to pick them up. They range from gold, to medical items, to even equipment.
Here are some of the pieces of equipment you may come across.

$Power Dagger
This dagger is quite deadly, but watch out for the defense and magic defense, which are not mentioned in the description. It takes away 5 on both, although the boost in strength sort of compensates for that. Just be mindful who you give it to.

$Andromeda Blade
Another sneaky piece of equipment which doesn't specify what it has and doesn't have. Look at the massive strength boost it has, but also be aware of the penalties. -4 in physical and magical defense, -8 in magic attack, and quite a decent chunk taken from your speed stat. Again, powerful on the right manamon, but risky on the wrong one.

$Chinkon Hill
Manamon Present: Symphonid, Niamanja, Blade Dodderator, Ghost Leonatar, Erroir
This is the hill you will arrive at, which is located on the western end of the catacombs.
I really wish I could help you through, but the fact that they are different for everyone makes it a barrier. But I trust that you had the skills to get here, so good job!
Notice how I said Manamon Present, not Manamon Available. This is because these manamon are drawn, or you could say, computer generated. You can't actually catch them here, as much as you might want to. Only those who are in this dimension can.
To be honest, this dimension gives me the creeps. Knowing that you are not in the real world, that this is all some drawn fantasy, it's quite unsettling.
And I am sad to say, we will be here for quite a long time. So buckle up, and prepare for what comes next.
Use all the knowledge you have learned so far in this guide to keep up. I'm going to start letting you shine, and I'm going to step back a little and shorten my directions. Time to let you guys be independent a little.
That doesn't mean I'm not going to give you directions. They're simply going to be less intense.
Alright, here goes.
Head west of the catacombs, to the western wall. Follow it south.
Head past the person who refuses to let you go west, we'll be back for them later.
Keep traveling south for a bit, and...
Don't move!
Whoops? You're in trouble.
And it looks like they already know who you are. This will be quite the show.
Note: 2 on 2.

@Palace Guards Kason and Syntrofos
Kason's Foefumb is level 44 and Syntrofos' Miterosier is level 44

And you are now surrounded! That certainly did not end well.

_Requiem Castle
You are taken into what seems to be Requiem Castle. It's not just any place in the castle, however. It's the dungeon.
You can press Shift plus T to know how much time is left before the next event in this place triggers. There are sometimes occurrances like this.
You will be in here for 1 minute.
Eventually, the guards come for you, and they march you out of the dungeon and up the stairs.
You are now standing in front of an entrance. Don't bother going south, they'll stop you and tell you to go into the throne room. Here goes.

Keep heading north, and eventually you will automatically walk up to the throne.
It seems you are quite tongue tied as well. And you can't exactly tell her what is happening.
You are sent back to the dungeon.

And now, we wait for another minute to, "calm down." Alright then.
And then she just, appears.
I won't bother giving all the dialogue, it's rather long. So scroll through if you wish.
The summary is that you deliver the news about how she's living in an artificial world, and how said world was created.
Eventually, she gives you an item called the Catacomb Key, which asks as a sort of Daedalus Dust to take you to the beginning of the catacombs, the castle, or just out of the dungeon in general. She also asks for you to stop Oghma. We are going to do exactly that.
But first things first, let's get out. Open your inventory, go to the Other Items category, and use the key.

_Catacombs Dungeon Entrance
You know the drill. Different path for everyone, but you are looking for stairs that go down, which should be south somewhere.

_Catacomb Antechamber
Again, different layout, but you may need to push a rock out of the way to continue. You are looking for another flight of stairs down as well, which is also south.

_Back in Greater Catacombs
Walk west, for the hill.

_Back in Chinkon Hill
Aain, western wall. Find the person we passed by before.
He'll ask for an ID, but before he can continue rambling on, Princess Andromeda comes running and demands the guard step aside. You are now free to pass. He even says so, interact with him.
As you start to head west through the gap, Andromeda stops you.
Suddenly, you get a cutscene of earlier. And things don't look so good for Oghma. But that also exposes the fact that you are here. Oh well, I guess he would have found out eventually anyway.
Andromeda does give you a path of where you should go though. Across the Barren Underground and through the Frozen Hinterland.
Let's get going then.
Head west. When you can go north, head north through the gap.
Continue all the way north. You'll reach a map transition.

_Drumineshire Hamlet
This is our first destination.
This area is arranged around a body of water.
Head east and then head north when a gap appears. You will reach a person, who tells you that there is a strnage beast around here somewhere. Not good.
Head back to the entrance.
If you walk west until you bump the wall and then head north, water will be available to the west.
Swimming south and then getting out will take you to a person who has some rude things to say about Oghma. This place sure does look like something that was poorly created, so I don't blame them one bit.
Go to the south wall. Head west for two healing mists.
Head back north to the water. Swim all the way north, and then get out to find a building. Head inside.

_Drumineshire Hotel
This is an artificial hotel, so it's not necessarily a realistic mana hotel. Then again, nothing here is.
You can still heal up and use the transportal though, just like any other. You can also trade and battle as well.
Do what you would like, then head out.

Now, head to the water. Swim back east, then follow the western wall north when you get out.
You will reach some stairs. Down we go.

_Barren Underground
I absolutely despise this place. But Aaron doesn't care.
Head all the way east for a chest. Open it to obtain an Air Claw.
Ignore the entrance to the north. We will be back.
Head all the way back west, toward the entrance, then west for a revive. Be sure to keep it around.
Head all the way west, then go south when possible.
If you find a gap in the southern wall, ignore it. Head all the way west, then south again.
At the next southern wall, head east.
There is a rock here, which we need to push onto a switch. Push it all the way east. Ignore the gap in the southern wall, there is a forcefield there.
Once you hear a ching, the rock has activated the switch, and a forcefield which was previously blocking the path south will deactivate.
Now, head back west, and find the gap in the southern wall. Head south.
Do not go too far south. Save, as there are flames from left to right. Similar to the currents, wait until the flames are not directly behind you, then run south.
There are multiple, so wait for each.
I usually just run through all of it, since most of them are timed in a similar fashion, but be careful if you decide to do this. I just do it because I've been through this place on several occasions.
When you reach the southern wall, there's a gap in the eastern wall. Take it east.
Don't go south, it's a pit of fire, similar to electrified floors. Instead, go all the way east, then head south a little bit. Find the gap in the eastern wall and take it east.
At the eastern wall, head south. Follow it west, and head south through the next gap.
Now, it is open space.
In this area, there are 3 entrances to different sections of this place. We will hit them from closest to furthest.
We require 3 keys. They are in all three areas.
That being said, head all the way south, all the way east, and up the ladder.

_Barren Underground F2
From the ladder, head all the way east, then head north.
When you can go east again, do so. Only take a few steps east, then head all the way north and continue east against the northern wall instead.
When it opens, head north and through an entrance.

Head north, then aim for the conveyor belt on the left.
This is a musical puzzle, but with a twist.
The notes are arranged on a belt, not attached to trees.
What you need to do is hit the notes, while you are moving on the belt.
First, go to Quartantula after getting off the belt to hear the sequence.
After that, aim for the conveyor belt that is east of the one you got off of, and take it back.
Now head to the west conveyor belt and take it.
Webs 1, 2, and 5
Head back to the east belt, take it, then the west belt.
Web 5
East belt, then west belt.
Web 2
East belt, then west belt one more time.
Web 1
Continue riding the west belt until you get off, then head north through the unblocked gap.
Once it is open space, head east. You will find a cannon.
Launch yourself right, then head south to the southern wall. Head east, then when you can head south, do so.
At the next southern wall, head west. Find the ladder and head up.

_Barren Underground F3
Behind you is a level 50 Bulderdash. To continue, you need to fight it.
Don't worry, it's just your average Bulderdash. It's not a hyper. Just take it down with a fighting type, a water type, whichever you use for stone types.
Head south through the gap Bulderdash was guarding, and when you can go west, head west. Follow the northern wall west.
Do not head all the way west. Find a gap in the southern wall and take it south.
Another guardian resides here. Again, it's just a normal manamon.
Specifically, this is a level 50 Volanteral, the final transformation of Limewurm. It's a dragon and stone type.
Once you defeat Volanteral, head south for yet another guardian.
This is also a normal manamon.
It is a level 50 Mightauras, the final transformation of Minitaur. It is an earth and steel type.
Keep in mind you probably do not want to use an air, flame, water or magic type on this.
Do not fall into the pit! We will do that in a moment.
Instead, veer around it west, then head south. Open the chest for one of our essential items, Underground Key 3.
Now, head to the pit, and fall through.

_Barren Underground
We are now back where we originally were before we climbed up the ladder.
Let's hit our next spot.
Head to the northern wall, then follow it east.
When you can go north, do so. Head all the way north, and up the stairs.

_Barren Underground F2
When you arrive at the top, you will hear several Chiropertas.
This is a pain to get through. You must get through this area without a Chiroperta detecting you. If you get close to one, all the Chiroperta in the area will combine forces to push you out of the room.
That being said, here's how to get past them.
First, take 5 steps north to avoid the Chiroperta nearest to the stairs, then head all the way east.
Head north, and open the chest you hear to get a Life Tonic.
If you try to head back west, you might get pushed out of the room. It's okay, we'll just go back up the stairs.
Now, back on route.
This time, head south from the stairs, then head west.
When you can go north, be careful here. Follow the eastern wall. When it veers, you must veer with it, or you will be caught.
At the northeastern corner, take 6 steps west, then 6 steps south.
At this position, head all the way west, then head north.
You may find yourself going into a gap with no exits. Back out, follow the northern wall west, then head north to avoid the next ghosties.
You may need to sidestep a bit west to continue heading north, but once you reach the northern wall, just follow it west.
At the western wall, do not head south. There is a current that comes this far. When it receeds, head south, then a bit east.
Head east to collect 450 gold. Do not go all the way back to the western wall!
Instead, position yourself so that the current is to your left, then follow it south.
You will hear stairs leading up, but notice they are behind the current. Align yourself with the stairs, and when the current moves away from them, dash west.

_Barren Underground F3
From the stairs, head west to collect a Master Herb, then head all the way north until you reach water.
Swim to the northern wall, follow it east, then swim north again.
You will hear an exit point to the west, so exit the water.
Walk across the mud, then head north and start swimming again.
Head east for another exit point. Get out, find water to the north, and start swimming east.
An exit point will be to the south, so find it and get out.
Follow the western wall south. Ignore its disappearance, and when you reach the southern wall, head west.
Head south when you can, and through the entrance.

_Barren Underground F3
Scattered around this area are various spikes. If you step on them, they will kill your manamon in 2 hits. It will continue doing this until your entire team is taken out.
Head all the way to the western wall, head south, and Aaron? This is so rude.
Save here. There is a speed booster, and you won't be able to save while its active. You will be avoiding spikes, while going very fast!
Your main goal is to head west, avoiding all the spikes in your wake. I'll give you directions, but obviously I can't tell you where each and every spike is.
When you reach the western wall, head south. I can tell you that there are a few spikes there, so if you think your team will be vulnerable, veer a few steps east.
Once you reach the southern wall, take the conveyor belt east.
In this area, there are several gaps positioned along the eastern wall. One of them has a hole, which you need to drop down into.

_Barren Underground F2
In this area, there are a few items.
One of them is directly behind you, which is another Healing Mist.
Now head east to find another one, which is a Daedalus Dust.
Head further east for a dead tamer.
Um, okay then...
Also, they usually do not have names, so I'll have to wing it here.

@Dead Tamer unknown
Skeletone is level 47
Morghoul is level 46
Schemu is level 47
Most of these don't say anything either. They just sort of, crumble, and disappear.

Head all the way east, then north. Follow the northern wall east.
Eventually you will be able to go north. Head there for another dead tamer.
This one apparently lives off of pure hatred.

@Dead Tamer unknown #2
Banshreek is level 50

Head all the way north, then east until you find a gap in the northern wall. Continue north.
When you can go west, head west. There will be a gap in the western wall near the southern wall, so take it.
Another dead tamer.
I'm not going to even try to translate what this tamer just said. Probably an otherworldly language. Oghma, do you have a dictionary for this dimension by chance?

@Dead Tamer unknown #3
Clubbull is level 48
Escargma is level 47
Garganchan is level 47

Once again, do not aim for the pit just yet. Go and open the chest.
We now have Underground Key 2.
Alright, back down the pit.

_Back in Barren Underground
Remember the stairs? This time, just go east of them, and then head south.
This is the last entrance, so let's head in.

In this area, there are a bunch of boulders blocking access to the ladder.
We can't move them from the outside, so we're going to have to take a trip around.
From the entrance, head north. When you find the northern gap, keep heading north.
At the northern wall, head east. There will be a gap in the southern wall, so take it south.
Now head west, and you will bump into one of the boulders. Shove it left, then step around it so that you are to the left of the other boulders.
Now this time, go back to the entrance, but head west. Head all the way north in a similar fashion, and then continue east through the narrow gap.
When you are able to go south, do so. At the next southern wall, head west.
You will notice the first boulder here. Shove it left.
Now, step out into the open, back where all the other boulders are. Get behind the remaining boulder, and push it forward to expose the ladder.
Finally, head east and up the ladder.

_Barren Underground F2
In this room, our goal is to get a large statue onto a switch. However, there are a few things blocking the statue.
On the northern side, there are three boulders preventing a statue from being moved. On either side of the statue, there is a skeleton, and a table.
At the southern end is a person, who will send you out of the area, so do not interact with them.
Honestly, I only ever concern myself with the three boulders on the northern end of the room.
That being said, here's how I do it.
Get between the second and third boulder. The third one is the one that sounds all crackly, sort of tinny you could say.
Push that boulder all the way east, then get in front of it and push it all the way south. Be gone from this place!
Now, be careful with this part. Get between the first and second boulder. Do not try and push the first toward the second and vice versa, you'll stick them together.
Now, push the first boulder all the way west, then pretty much all the way south if you would like. The goal is to get all of these out of the way.
With the second boulder, do the same thing. Push it all the way west, then head south. You can push it up against the first boulder if you wish, it's harmless at this point.
At this point, get behind the statue on the south end, since it is no longer being blocked by the 3 boulders, then push it forward.
You will hear a ching, and a pit will be directly in front of you. Take it down.

_Barren Underground
At this point, you can't go back in that direction. The statue slides back into place above you.
Now, follow the northern wall west. Head north, but not all the way. More flames!
Get past the flames, and then hop on the belt. But this belt is dangerous!
Part of the belt is electrified. Stick to the western wall, otherwise have fun being shredded.
Eventually you will be transported onto another belt. Once you get off the belt, avoid the pit like always.
Head to the eastern wall, then head north for the chest, containing Underground Key 1.

_Back in Barren Underground
Alright, we have all 3 keys!
Now, the real fun begins. Remember that entrance I told you to avoid?
Well, we are not avoiding it anymore, so let's go!
Retrace your steps back to the entry stairs. Watch out for the fire pit and the flames.
If you need to go heal up, now's your chance!
Continue east past the stairs, and stick to the northern wall. Once you find the next entrance, head in.

_Barren Heart
More spikes!
You may be thinking, no problem. I can just avoid them like last time.
Nope. These appear randomly. And I don't just mean pop up and stay there. They appear and disappear.
What makes it even more annoying is sometimes they appear right in front of you, or even in the direction you are going. It's almost like red light green light, but with spikes.
Again, I can't tell you where each and every spike is, but I'll provide directions on where to go. I doubt I'd be able to provide where each and every spike is in here anyways, since they pop up and disappear at random.
Head north to the northern wall.
Head east, and when a gap appears, head north.
Do not go all the way north. Simply head north a ways, then head east. You can then start heading north again.
The reason I said do not go all the way north is you would get stuck in a gap.
Eventually, you will find a door. use Underground Key 1 to unlock it, and let's continue on our way.

In this room, get up against the western wall. Follow it north.
When a gap appears in the western wall, take a step or two west, then head to the northern wall and follow it west.
Find the gap in the northern wall, and continue north.
Ignore the gap in the eastern wall. Continue all the way north, and find the gap that will take you further north.
At the next northern wall, keep heading east.
A gap will appear in the northern wall, which holds the door. Head north a little bit, then use Underground Key 2 to unlock it.

From the door, head west. You will ventually bump into the western wall. Take a step south and continue west.
If you would like, you can go north and collect the 5 herbs that are in that area. Otherwise, continue west.
Watch out. Since this passage is only one tile wide, spikes can easily appear just one step to your left. Tread carefully.
Continue west even when it opens up to the north.
Once you find the western wall, follow it north. A gap will come up, so take it west.
Once you reach the western wall, head all the way north for the next door. Open it with Underground Key 3.

Now in this room, save. Time for a very intense fight. This is perhaps one of the most intense ones in this game.

Head north, and we will come face to face with someone we all know too well.
Nice to see you again, Byron. Haven't changed much I see.
Um, screw that assumption. You have changed. What the hell is thaaaat?

@@Barren Byron
Level: 50
Sorry to say, but Byron isn't the only one you have to fight in this battle.
He also summons the following manamon.
Molandon is level 40
Kaboerain, Bamboustica, or Golavath is level 40
Marlaunt is level 40
Daggeetle is level 40
Pegastorm is level 40
Chimerus is level 40
This is a 6 against 7 battle.
The manamon are not hard to deal with if you possess the right types. It's Byron you should be extremely worried about.
If you manage to kill all of his manamon, and he is still within a certain health range, he can resurrect one or more of them, and then regain a significant amount of health.
If you manage to weaken him beyond 50 percent, he will not be able to do this anymore, although this may be random as well.
At 15 percent health, he will try to wipe you out with one of his most powerful moves in his arsenal. These are usually apocalypse moves.
Besides all that, he also has a lot of moves that are designed to kill your manamon that are weak to said move. Here are some of its heaviest moves. If you hear overdrive, you are probably okay. If you hear apocalypse, however? Brace yourself, as it has a chance of instakilling one or more of your manamon.
You are going to need to be very patient with this battle. If you lose a few times, it's completely okay. It is not your fault, this boss is just hard in general.
You get a lot of experience for this battle, so enjoy.

You have a very interesting dialogue, in which Byron slowly dies. Then, it's time for us to continue.
Head north all the way, then head west to head to our next destination.

_Frozen Hinterland
Manamon Present: Maustodon, Frenrir, Rescumo, Deciced
Head north for an explorer who will explain how sliding on the ice works. They'll hand you a pair of ice shoes that we can now use to cross the ice.
Now, slide on the ice north, then head east. Once you are off, head south, then east for some stairs.
The person standing against the wall to the north actually does tell you there is a shelter to the right.

_Hinterland Shelter
This is another makeshift mana hotel.
It does not have the wireless communications person, although the bed and transportal are here.
South of the bed is a person who is selling goods, similar to a manamon marketplace. You can't actually sell any items back, but if you need anything and you have a lot of gold, feel free to stock up. A lot of the stuff that is on sale is useful.
On the eastern end of the shelter, a person is praising Oghma for creating a shelter from the elements outside. Goodness, I've had enough of this.
Against the southern wall, a bit west from the eastern wall, is an EXP Pal.
Assuming you did not get the EXP Pal from the castle back in Shadow Canyon, here is the explanation.
The way this tool works, is you give it to a manamon. Not equip, give. You do this by selecting the Give Item option when you choose a manamon in your party. Then, any time you go into a battle, the EXP is divided between the manamon you fought with, and the manamon that is holding the EXP Pal.
This is a good way to train up a manamon that is lower in level.
Alright. There's nothing else here, so once you are all warmed up, it's time to head back into the cold.

_Back in Frozen Hinterland
Alright. Head west of the shelter, and we are going to head into the, ahem. What did that person say? The "unforgiving elements?"
Slide on the ice back west, and find the western wall. Travel south, and slide on the ice south, then get off west.
Next, find the western wall. Travel north to find the gap, then continue west.
At the next western wall, you will hear a statue. Avoid it for now, and slide north.
When you get off the ice, head east, then north toward a chest. It contains a Snow Shield.
Now head back to the ice.
From the western wall, take three steps from the western wall, then slide south. You will hit the statue, so slide east.
Once you get off, head to the eastern wall, and travel north. At the northern wall, head east, then find the gap in the northern wall and head north.
Slide all the way north, then west. Get off, take a few steps west, then head south.
Head to the chest, and open it to get a UP Boost.
Head back to the ice, but don't slide on it yet. Take 2 steps from the southern wall, then slide east.
Once you are off, head east. There will be a chest to the south, which contains a Silver Tonic.
Head back west across the ice, then go to the southern wall. Slide back east to hit the eastern wall, then slide north.
Head north, and there will be a gap somewhere in the northern wall. Slide across the ice north, then slide east.
When you get off, head south, then head east for a tamer.
You don't exist. Sorry man.

@Birdwatcher Andre
Frostond is level 47
Penguilum is level 48
I'm sure it helps, especially out here.

Head south, then east for another tamer.
Cool!

@Lass Nora
Ghoperto is level 48
Arctana is level 47
Deciced is level 47
Be careful.

Head north past Nora. You may have to go around her to the east before this is possible. Then, head east for the next tamer.
first of all, do you realize how dangerous that place is? Second of all, Byron is dead.

@Reporter Elinor
salvahound is level 52
Frenrir is level 49
Hey, it wasn't that bad.

Head east of the reporter, then north to reach a map transition. Head through.

You will automatically slide north, and into a person.
It's a nurse, who will heal up your team if you can beat her.

@Nurse Donna
Wavotamus is level 49
Vyprolt is level 48
Ghost Leonatar is level 47
Rhinodyo is level 49
Blade Dodderator is level 47
Thank you.

You will keep sliding north, and through a transition.

You will stop[ a few paces from the entrance. Head east, and when you hit the eastern wall, head north.
head west until you find a gap in the northern wall, and walk through. Then, head west for open space.
Head north to the northern wall, follow it west until you can go north, and continue north.
You will will find another ghost hunter.
Apparently you have a strange spirit, and your soul cannot be sensed. Probably because it's not necessarily in this pocket dimension, it's in reality.

@Ghost Hunter Freddie
Snowmonno is level 52
None of your business.

Head north to the northern wall. There are two strips of ice on either side, west and east. Slide west first, and open the chest that you slide to.
It's not a chest, it's a level 50 Pandourbit!
There are times where a manamon will appear when you open a chest. Pandourbit is most often the one.

#Pandourbit
Type: Earth and Ghost
This manamon is pretty good. It gets a mix of good earth and ghost moves if you give it patience.
Obviously, you can't catch this one.

Once you complete this battle, you will get 5000 gold.

Now, slide back east. Head over to the strip of ice to the east, and slide onward.
It's a rock. Oh wait...
More turtles!
Nice to see you again, urrubble. It's level 55.
Take it down, and let's continue.
Step off the ice, then head north. You will hear a map transition, so head through it. You may have to head a bit east to find it.

From the entrance, head east to the eastern wall. Follow it north, find the gap in the wall, then keep heading east, sticking to the southern wall.
When you reach the eastern wall, head north.
Once the eastern wall ends, head north. Ignore the gap to the east as you are heading north.
Upon reaching the northern wall, head east, and then continue north through the gap.
Ignore the west gap. Keep heading north to find the northern wall, then head east.
When you are able to go north again, do so, but after taking a few steps north, you should stick to the eastern wall.
There will be two gaps in the wall. You want the one closest to the northern wall. Take it east, and stick to the wall south of you.
Once you can go south, head in that direction. Stick to the eastern wall, as it will end abruptly.
Now, head east until you reach the eastern wall. Similar to the prior step, head south a little, then continue east.
You will step into powdered snow. From here, continue north.
Slide across the ice north, then slide east.
Once you get off, you will be sandwiched between two walls. When you can go south, do so, until it is open space.
Head west, and slide west onto the next section of ice.
Once you get off, head west, and then south to find a chest. Open it to get a Snow Rescue Suit. This gives the manamon it is put on the ability Snow Rescue, which doubles its speed during a snowstorm.
Now, slide back east on the ice, and get off where you were before. Head east to the gap next to the one you came south out of, and head north.
There will be a gap in the eastern wall, but it is not all th way at the northern wall. Keep to the eastern side of the area, and then head east when possible.
Sticking to the wall behind you, keep walking east. You will hear a strip of ice, so slide east.
Once you get off the ice, head south. You may run into a wall, so sidestep to find the gap in the southern wall, and then continue south.
Upon reaching the southern wall, find the next gap south, and take it.
You will reach another strip of ice. Slide on it east.
When you reach the eastern wall, slide north.
Lastly, slide west.
Almost there! Head to the western wall, then follow it south. When it ends, head west.
Keep to the wall in front of you. When there is a gap available, head north through it.
At the northern wall, head east a step or two, then continue north.
Eventually, you will hear a staircase. Take it up.

Scattered throughout this area are several medicinal items.
Starting with the one nearest the stairs is 5 herbs.
Head north to find 5 strong herbs.
Head north a little bit, then head west to find 3 mighty herbs.
Head east to the opposite wall to find 2 master herbs.
North of the master herbs is a medical miracle.
There is a gap in the northern wall ahead, so take it north.
Heading further north, you will find 2 revives.
Heading east from that area, you will find a full revive.
There will be a gap in the eastern wall, otherwise you can go all the way north and travel east.
Do not aim for the stairs just yet. Head a little ways south, then west for a healing unit. I'm pretty sure you know what this means by now.

A note before we continue.
If you use your pocket copter, you can now get to this spot, called the End of Frozen Hinterland. This makes it way easier to get here, without needing to travel all the way here again.
From the stairs, head north. I recommend squaring off with the stairs.
When you reach the northern wall, notice there are two gaps. One on the left, and one on the right. Take the one on the left north.
When you reach the next northern wall, take the gap that is against the western wall north.
There will be a few gaps in the eastern wall. Take the gap that is closest to the northern wall.
When you reach the next eastern wall, head all the way south, then take that gap east. Be careful, as there are several identical gaps here.
At the next eastern wall, head north until you reach the northern wall, then take a step or two west.
Save here, as things are going to get intense again.
Head north, and you will hear a sound as if something is flying past you, followed by a loud thump.
It's a Maustodon. I'm sure you know what type it is too.

@@Hyper Maustodon
This thing is just attrocious.
Ever had your accuracy decreased by 5 stages? Well, you're about to.
This manamon has an ability that will cover one of your manamon's eyes with snow, decreasing their accuracy by 5 stages. If you have a manamon with an ability that makes it immune to this, then you'll be fine. Otherwise? Have fun!
Since it is a hyper, it is immune to most status effects, but you should be able to confuse it if you wish. It still will take damage from type advantage attacks as normal.
Again, this doesn't have any advanced moves, but they obviously do deal way more damage than normal. Watch out for Crystal Slash and Black Ice, they hurt if your manmon is weak, or even more if it has a double weakness.
You get a decent amount of experience and gold for this.
Good luck!

Once you are done getting rid of Maustodon, head north.
You will hear a rather ominous map transition sound. Head through, and it's time to face our greatest challenge in this dimension yet.

_Edge of the World
Perhaps one of the creepiest places in the entire game, even going beyond Shadow Canyon which is actually a real place.
The music is creepy, even the ambience is. You can even hear the world's heartbeat.
I warn you, the game only gets harder from here. Barren Underground was just a practice session.
Head all the way north, and you will bump into something interactable. It's a cliff, into endless space. Thankfully we can't fall off.
Head to the western wall, then head south. We will fall, but thankfully not off the cliff.

In this area, ignore the objects. For now, you want to head south. You will hear a very weird buzzing sound.
I like to think of these as picture machines. When you interact with it, the machine will suck you into the picture, and you will be able to see how things are placed.
Remember the objects I told you to ignore? Well, now that you are inside the picture, you can see where the objects are, and in which place they are supposed to go.
Three boulders are to the right of the ladder, with a gap in between each. Along the eastern wall, a table is about two paces from the last boulder.
Let's get to work. Press your interaction key (mine is preferably Enter), and the picture will deposit you where the machine was previously, with the objects scattered about.
The goal is to place all the objects in the correct places which were seen in the picture, to head through the exit that is south of the machine.
If you are afraid of messing up like me, save just in case you move something to the wrong spot.
The first one is directly south from the ladder. Push it all the way forward, then to the right once. You will hear a thud, indicating you placed it in the right place.
If you head all the way to the eastern wall, and then south, you will find the object that needs to go in the northeastern corner. Just push it all the way forward.
The next one is not too far from the one you just moved, approximately southwest. Just push that all the way forward as well.
The last object is south of the ladder, and in a little gap to the west. Get on its left side, then push it all the way east.
Now, push it all the way forward.
You should eventually hear not only a thud, but a loud grinding sound. This means we can use the south exit now.
Head around the picture machine on the west side so you don't have to do some footwork, then head south. You will eventually reach it, so head through.

You will be abruptly stopped by a rumbling sound. This is the move Earthquake, but unfortunately, this is a literal earthquake.
In order to make it through this area, you must do so in 15 seconds.
Quickly find the cannon, get behind it, and launch yourself backward.
Next cannon, launch yourself left.
Next one, launch yourself left.
Now, dash north.
If you succeeded, you will automatically run through the next door.

Ready for more popup spikes?
No? Too bad, they are here. Plus some other things as well!
Same as before. I'll lead, you dodge.
Head all the way west, then follow the wall north. When you can go west, do so.
I usually keep to the northern wall in this space, so feel free to do that while heading west.
You'll be heading west for quite a long time, but start heading north when you are able to.
When you are able to go east, do so.
Let's play a game! Spikes and lasers!
That's right, we not only have spikes here, but also lasers. Nice to see you again.
The goal is to make it through this area east, while avoiding both the spikes and the lasers.
I usually save a bit frequently in this area, as the further you go, the faster the lasers get.
The first laser is relatively slow, so just step past it.
Once you reach the eastern wall (was quite an annoying process for me), head west until there is a gap in the northern wall.
Do not step in immediately! There's a current. Wait until it moves away, then walk through. Watch out, there are sitll spikes here.
Do not go too far, as there is yet another one.
There is a gap in the western wall. Take it, and it's time for a speed booster, similar to Barren Underground F3.
The only difference is that the ones in there were stationary. These are not.
Save before you activate the booster as well, since you won't be able to.
Keep heading west, dodging the spikes the best you can with this ridiculous booster.
You will eventually find a gap in the northern wall, so take it north.
Stick to the eastern wall, and you will star to hear Chiropertas, again!
That's right, we are avoiding more of these annoying ghosts.
The good news is if they do send us back, we will just be sent to the part after we went past those spikes, not all the way back to the booster activation spot.
Here's how to get through. Note that when I say head north or head south in this section, it means northern wall, and southern wall.
We will be going east in this section as well.
South to get past the first Chiroperta.
Once you are far enough, head north, then run past the next one.
Head back south and run past the next one.
Head north and then run past the next.
Head south and run past two Chiropertas.
Head bakc north, and run past the next.
Now, head south and run past the final one.
At the eastern wall, head north. Try not to go back west, otherwise you might alert the last Chiroperta.
Alright, back to our regularly scheduled program, spikes!
Once you reach the northern wall, head west to find the western wall.
Take a few steps ssouth until you can go west, then do so. It's time for the next round.
More lasers up ahead, so be careful.
Eventually, the booster will expire, so you can now save.
Once you can go north, do so. We still have a ways to go.
Stick to the eastern wall, then head east as soon as you detect a gap.
Once you reach the next eastern wall, follow it north.
At the next northern wall, head all the way west, then north through the gap.
Once you reach the northern wall, start heading east. You are essentially heading the way you came, but north of it.
The northern wall will move slightly. Don't worry about it, just keep heading east. You'll enter another narrow gap.
Don't stop going east until you can head north. Once possible, you will hear an exit in front of you.
Before you rush to the exit, check out the conveniently placed healing unit to the west. You probably need it. My Maustodon is the only one standing as I'm writing this.

This is another picture puzzle.
I'd complain, but given what we've just experienced, this is better than dodging spikes, lasers, and weaving through Chiropertas.
Move past all the objects. You are aiming for the northern part of the room. Let the picture machine suck you in, and let's see what is going on.
In a small western space not too far from the machine, there is a person, a table, and a bench. Let's check out their arrangements.
The person is standing two steps away from the wall, with the table directly in front of them.
The table is 4 positions away from the western wall.
The bench is 3 positions away from the northern wall, with a gap in between the table and the bench. They are aligned.
Positioned to the right of the space is a boulder of some kind.
Alright. Hit your interaction key to get out of the picture, and let's begin.
The person is actually in the opposite room, this being the eastern space rather than the western space.
Get to the right of the person, and disrespectfully shove them west to the next room. For whatever reason, it sounds like they are on wheels too. Aaron, did you attach wheels to this dude?
Do not shove them all the way to the western wall. Instead, get in front of them. Push them south so that they are two steps from the wall, meaning that if you bump into the southern wall, trying to go north will cause you to bump into the person.
Now, push them east until you hear a thud. 1 out of 4.
If you go south of the room and then east, you will find the table.
Get behind it, and push it 10 times north.
Check to make sure you are lined up correctly. Head west and see if the tamer is directly behind you.
If so, go back to the table, get on its right side, and push it all the way west until you hear a thud. 2 out of 4.
The bench is in the room southeast of the one with the person and the table so far. Head back east, then a bit south to aim for that room.
This bench is rather long, so you'll have to be careful about the other end as well when you are moving it around.
Push it west until you can hear the gap in the northern wall.
Do not push it any further west, that'll end up putting it in the wrong room.
Instead, get behind it push it 8 times north.
Finally, push it west until you hear a thud. 3 out of 4.
Last is the boulder, which is in the room directly behind this one.
Head back east, south, and then west into the room behind it. The boulder is sitting against the southern wall.
Get on its left side, and push it east until you can hear the southern gap behind you. Then get behind it and push it north.
As you push it north, constantly check to the west if there is a wall. You should find the wall which separates the room it was in from the room with all the other placements.
If you do not hear a thud, simply push it right or left until you do.
Finally, you will hear a grinding sound. There is an exit past the picture machine to the north.
Squeeze past the machine on either side, then head north, and through the exit.

The heart of Requiem is a manamon, not a place...
Remember how I told you that you should remember the manamon Artisoul? It felt like ages ago.
That's because it was. However, all of this has led up to this point.
This particular Artisoul has been running this vast pocket dimension. Just this one poor hedgehog. It almost makes me want to throw a building on top of Oghma. But I don't have that type of strength, and I digress.
Furthermore, it has been wired to a machine. Talk about improper use of manamon.
This is pretty much the room that really controls the existence of this place. The ruby isn't necessarily powering this, it is Artisoul, with the help of said ruby.
This isn't a drawn one either, it's a realistic one, dragged into this dimension to power this screwed up creation.
And we are going to help it.
As you reach out, you get shocked by 300 volts. That's not Artisoul, it's the machine. And if that current is running through it constantly, it's probably only adding to the torture.
Now, head over to the machine, and open your inventory.
Remember the thermos we used back when we were traveling through the desert?
We are going to use it now.
Find it in your Other category, and select Use.
There are two parts of this thing Artisoul is hooked up to. Head over to the other, and use your thermos once again.
Figures. Now the world is glitching.
It glitches to the point where you are put in a void where you can go through memories of Oghma and Andromeda.
This is almost like you are floating, except there are no places to send you back to the beginning.
Drift over to the southwestern wall, and watch that one. It's Andromeda becoming the manamon master.
Drift over to the eastern side, where Andromeda wants to go surfing, while Oghma gets a bite to eat.
Drift north against the eastern wall to get a memory of Oghma giving Andromeda some ice cream. Now I want some.
Drift west for yet another memory.
This one involves Andromeda finishing off her treat. She gets into the water with a surfboard, and things eventually go south. She goes under due to the chaotic weather.
Keep heading west for another scene.
Eventually they find her, and things aren't looking so good. She's dead, and Oghma is grieving.
Look at this line very carefully.
"I promise, when I get you back, you'll have kingdoms, castles, servents, anything and everything you want."
If you remember, a similar thing was said before the story even began.
"Please, just wait. It will be perfect: kingdoms, castles, servants, everything you could possibly want. It will be a heaven for you."
You can finally see the pieces coming together. All of this was made based on what he thought she wanted. But this isn't what she wanted, at least not like this.
"I'm sure that whatever I said, I didn't mean this. I'm scared!"
The next one is sort of in the middle.
This is when she actually begins her journey as a tamer, and she's scared to start.
Look at these next few lines.
"Then if I die, please, make the world as beautiful as you think I am.
There's been a lot of war in this country, a lot of pain and a lot of suffering over nothing.
You're an artist. Make the world as beautiful as your Solphoa sunset painting."
And here we are, at the moment where everything clicks. Oghma’s promises were grand (kingdoms, castles, servants, etc), but that wasn’t what she really wanted. He built this world for her, based on what he thought she meant, but it was all a misunderstanding. The pieces are finally coming together. She never asked for perfection. She asked for beauty, for peace, for a world that reflected who she was, not this ridiculous conclusion he imagined. Oghma took her words literally, and now, all of this is occurring, just so he could get her back.
I will honestly say guys, this is also a life lesson. Sometimes, we will do anything to get something or someone we like back, and will sometimes go beyond normal measures to do so. There are times where you eventually just have to let go, even though it hurts. It'll still haunt you, in fact some of the deaths of my family and friends are still with me today. But they're gone. And the sooner you come to accept it, the better. Otherwise, you may change for the worse.
We have the biggest battles (besides the stadium master) coming in manamon 2 yet. Is your buckle still on? Good. Because this is going to get even more chaotic.
Before we begin, you are able to get access to Requia now.
Remember, the last time we visited Requia, was when Hathorilian gave us a vision. But we weren't in this world back then.
Since the world is now falling apart, a pit has appeared in the lower right section of the room (southeast). Let's drop through.

_Requia
North of the pit is a building that we can head into.

_Requia's Builder's Quarters
There's not a whole lot in here. One builder is praising their effort on how well the castle was made. I must say, it is quite imposing.
In fact, it's in the far northern area of this place. If you go in, it's mostly just a bunch of tamers you can face off against, several items scatterd about, and one important place that will be discussed later.
If people wish for me to document the castle in further detail, I am able to. But we're at the Edge of the World, so it's probably better to just get all of this over with.

There are two gaps in the northern wall, each leading into rooms with a few beds. The one on the right has a person who says it would be cool to be one of Andromeda's servants.
That's pretty much it here.

Head east of the building, and you will hit a wall. You may be familiar with this general area.
Maybe entering the building nearby will give you a clue.

_Ondermore's House
There are actually two beds. One on the western side and one on the eastern side. Both can be interacted with. This time they will act like normal beds.
Near the table you hear to the east is a person who is named Gorchaeli.
They apparently get to go on the next adventure that Oghma, I mean ahem! the father, will take them, which is into the outer world.
That's pretty much all here.

If you head east and then north from the house, you will find the inn, which is the central healing spot. This is where you would get dropped off at if you used your pocket copter.

_Recveem Inn
Again, nothing really special here, just a bunch of beds.
There is one person, who says if we are a freeloader, we should just leave. Wow, fine. Okay.
There is no actual transportal or marketplace here, so you'll have to go to Drumineshire Hamlet for a transportal or Frozen Hinterland for someone selling items.
Alright. Back to the pit south of the Builder's Quarters, which will take us to our doom!

_Back in Edge of the World
Alright, it's time to live, or die! Who knows.
Before you head through the gap in the northern wall, save, and prepare yourself.
Also, use an Encounter Down, Ultra encounter Down being the best. You may think I'm being ridiculous, but you'll know why soon enough.
As you walk north, Oghma appears, clearly in rage.
He has this notion that he can just get rid of you, and fix up this, apparently minor damage you have caused. Let's see him try!
She's still alive, and she was the first creation. Which means he definitely still has time. To ensure that this lasts...
Oh dear. Here comes Hathorilian.
And it doesn't look so calm this time. It's quite menacing.

@@Hyper Hathorilian
Level: 50
Not so kind anymore. Oh well, it was great while it lasted...
Just like Byron, this version comes with all the apocalypse goodies, so be careful!
It also has a move called Omega Sandstorm, which hurts if you have earth type vulnerable manamon. It will also cause a sandstorm as a result.
When it gets really low on health, you will start noticing positive stat changes. I just used Holy Smoke with my Angillish to reset them, which actually works surprisingly. But don't rely on that too much if you have one.
There is a different process with defeating this manamon.
If you defeat it through normal means, it will transform into an even more annoying version of itself, where it is harder to kill, and has a very annoying move called Chaos Chamber. It will hit a manamon and put a random status effect on it, from poison, to scorch, among others.
If you defeat it by confusing it (which is usually what I do) and it kills itself, it'll skip that entire process.
Hathorilian tries to pull something off the third time, but is stopped in its tracks.

Andromeda comes in, and she's none too happy with Oghma. She loses it, because it is quite clear that Oghma is not ready to listen to her request to stop.
Hathorilian has one more trick up its sleeve, called the Last Resort Protocol. And that is what we are about to face off against.
Before you go into battle, Andromeda gives you her life crystal, which will heal all your manamon during the battle. If you need it, use it at the right time. For instance, don't use it when just one of your teammates die. You have a revive for that.
She also does heal up all your manamon for you.
And now, the final transformation is pulled off.

@@Last Resort Protocol
Level: 50
This thing has quite a few tricks up its sleeve, see below.
1. Mirror Shield. When this shield is up, you can not hit the Last Resort Protocol. It simply doesn't work. You need to shatter the shield first before you can regain access. Just keep hitting the protocol it until it shatters. Alternatively, you can first hit the shield, then the protocol itself, which will both do some damage to it and to the shield.
2. Bomb Box. This box must be destroyed as soon as possible. If it is not destroyed in at least 3 turns, it will explode, killing all manamon currently on the field.
3. Vulnerability Protocol. This is a move, but it is still very important. It does not matter which manamon it uses it on. It is similar to the move Vulnerability Scan, but way more powerful. It will scan your manamon for its weakness, then hit you with the type it is weak to.
Good luck killing this thing, and when you do, prepare to get the hugest load of experience and gold you have ever obtained in this game. You'll be scrolling for quite awhile.

_Requiem Implosion
Manamon Present: Vultair, Lantlare, Orystar
He is absolutely pissed at the fact that Andromeda is going to die. You mean that the one you oh so disrespectfully created, not the real one...
As the location title suggests, Requiem is now imploding in on itself.
Sadly, you cannot save just yet. Escape or X does nothing anyway.
There is no literal time limit here. Your goal is to head southeast. If you used an Ultra Encounter Down, this process will be much easier.
Most of it is just south wall, east until you find the gap, head all the way south, east, south, east, etc.
There are also some western turns, like south, west, south, west, etc.
Eventually, you will hear the familiar sound of the dimension portal, just like the one in the catacombs. Interact with it, and yes I'm saying this, prepare for yet another battle!

@@Chaos Oghma
Level: 50
Chaos Oghma is, well, Oghma. He's just in his godly state, you could say.
In this battle, you and Andromeda team up to take him down. She summons 1 manamon, and you summon 2.
You might remember the move Chaos Chamber. I'm sorry to say, that there are others.
You could think of them as amplified versions of original manamon moves. Chaos Swipe, Chaos Drench, etc. Chaos Drain is a dangerous one, so be careful.
They all do lethal, if not fatal amounts of damage. They also have a higher chance of doing critical damage, thus making it even more powerful.
Andromeda does do her best to heal you if she notices your team is getting pummeled, but I wouldn't rely on that too much. Even though it's impossible to lose, it's still good to try and keep yourself in check too.
This monstrosity is more about strength and less about defense, so taking it down should be easier than destroying the Last Resort Protocol. That doesn't mean you should relax, though.
You will get experience and gold, but not as much as before.

Remember this music? And these lines?
We have finally reached the beginning of the world. It's unwinding.
We are essentially seeing events in reverse. First we see the lines about the darkness, and then we see Oghma talking to Andromeda.
Andromeda is the only one that exists. There is no Requia, no Drumineshire Hamlet, none of that. It never existed around this time.
And then, even she doesn't exist anymore. Nothing exists, but you.
You can't breathe, and the emptiness seems to crush you. But before you get deleted...
Crash!

_Back in Requia Gallery
Rena and her father apparently infiltrated Oghma's secret headquarters. Since the hard stuff was already taken care of, it wasn't that difficult to get to the gallery.
They smashed the computer just in time, and you got out.
But you also have some explaining to do.

_Back at Brytanburg in Mercilla's House
Welcome back to reality!
You can recognize the music. There is only one house that has a guest room labeled in Brytanburg, so it is Mercilla's 
You might want to save! Unless you want to do those  battles all over again!
Heal up, save, then head east.

As you walk out of the room, you thank Mercilla for letting you stay.
As for the stadiums, remember that you currently only have 4 keys. Mercilla points you in the direction of the last 3.
Mordunt Island is in the middle of the Kiarre ocean.
Sonasette City is through Elatia Path.
Tradale Village can be reached by swimming right and down from Peninsula Wilds.
In this guide, I will be writing them in this order.
Tradale Village
Mordunt Island
Sonasette City 
Of course, you can jump to whichever section you want to start with, as I will be detailing everything.
Isn't it so wonderful to exist right now?
We found a guy named Oghma on a strip of sand, then helped him get rid of the museum thieves that he hired himself. We ran into him several times, meanwhile dealing with a hyper robot (ahem I mean Mondevol), learning that there are more. This was confirmed by facing off against a ghostly man, and then a giant spider which was Hyper Symphonid.  We finally ran into a dragon with a dino statue. But things don't stop there!
Nope. We find out Oghma is a bad person. We invaded a hideout. We got teleported to a different country, explored a rainforest in said country, and went through a shrine. We then saved a village from a murder incident, traveled across a plateau, back into Kiarre.
Then, we broke a machine, went through an entire studio full of traps and mechanisms, discovered Oghma's purpose with the super computer and how he got it working, and even followed him into a different dimension.
We then traveled throughout the entire dimension, all the way to the edge, disconnected a poor hedgehog from a torture setup, and defeated three versions of what finally turned out to be the Last Resort Protocol.
Finally, to top it off, we destroyed Oghma, the world fell apart, and you were almost deleted yourself.
And now, you are back in reality, in good condition.
What am I trying to say here?
Well, basically that's pretty much it. After all of this, the game is pretty empty. Not that I am complaining, I'm glad to be done with all that. Writing it was difficult. But now things are just so open. There are quite a lot of open maps that could hold additional things, but they don't.
But it's okay. It's nice to finally return to the way things were. Just a regular tamer, aiming for the master title.
That being said, let's focus on the fact that things are pretty much smooth sailing from here on out.
Let's head out of Mercilla's, and get going!

_Back in Brytanburg East
Great. You can't even get a bit of fresh air without being cornered by a reporter we know all too well.
He does eventually relent at the fact that you do not want to answer any questions at the moment. However, he does give you a nice gift.
He gives you a Cofena.

#Cofena
Type: Magic and Steel
This camera, ahem um, I mean manamon, is quite a pain when it reaches higher levels. It's defenses are quite reasonable, and its attacks are heavy, if not devastating. You could give this thing a Steel Rapier, for instance, and greatly amplify its steel type moves. Or you could give it a magic-based piece of equipment. It's up to you.
It evolves into Cofatena in the early 30s.

Alright, let's get going!
First off, Tradale Village. It's pretty easy to reach.

_Back in Peninsula Wilds
The first time we came here, the water to the right was inaccessible. Thanks to our swim gear, however, that changes things!
Get into the water, then swim south. At the southern wall, head east a ways, then head south through the gap.
At the next southern wall, swim east a little bit, then continue south. You will reach a transition.

_Tradale Coast
Now, swim west to get out of the water.
Manamon Available: Turoison, Lavalan, Wavotamus, Miterosier, 
From the water, head south, and when you reach the southern wall, take a few steps west. Keep heading south from there.
At the next wall, head east a bit, then continue south.
You will find yourself at the next wall, which is only a few paces from the gap. Simply follow it east and continue south once you can.
Don't forget to swap the Holy Ring against the northern wall before continuing south.

$Holy Ring
This ring has some pretty neat stat boosts. It gives you 5 strength, 10 magic defense, and 15 speed. Although it makes the manamon 10 percent resistant to magic attacks, it does make it less resistant to insect and undead attacks.
Choose who you put this on wisely, and remember that it can only be equipped to holy type manamon.

If you reach the southern wall, and take the west gap south, you will come into an area where you will find a Total Cure, and an entrance. This is another entrance into Solphear Cave, which is not where we want to go, so head back north.
Instead, we want to take the gap that is in the eastern wall, just a step or two north of the southern wall.
Once you find it, continue east, and keep the southern wall close to you.
You will hear a building, so enter.

_Coastal House
This is a similar situation with Vermechaw City
Simply head east through the house, and out the opposite door to reach the next location.

_Outer Tradale
Manamon Available: Centiplex, Trumer, folimoss, Schemu
These are regular, living tamers. They are not drawn, or artificially created.
Head south of the house to battle them.
Whoopsies. This is why I don't pick fruit from trees.

@Gentleman Allen
Ursinearator is level 49
Grizzlord is level 50
Merembear is level 49
Be careful!
Nevermind, he's gone.
Speaking of which, wasn't there a person named Allen back in the beginning of this guide? Had a level 4 Frolop. Unless Aaron reused the name, since that Allen was a Lad and not a Gentleman.

Follow the southern wall east. Head south once a gap appears.
There is a gap in the eastern wall in this area. If you would rather go all the way ssouth, then follow the eastern wall north to find a gap, that works too.
Once you reach the eastern wall, head north for another tamer.
Well someone's got an attitude.

@Guitarist Russell
Sirenea is level 50
Bellaard is level 50
Yes, seriously.
If you do interact with him again, he says he hates it here. Well, why are you still standing here then?!

Head north, and then east through a gap for another tamer.
Good day to you sir.

@Detective Angus
Kangachan is level 51
This actually made me laugh. Goodbye sir.

Head east, and then north for the next tamer.
Um, okay?

@Actor Nickie
Mondevol is level 50
Symphonid is level 50
Limtoroom is level 50
I don't know, your call here.

Keep heading north, and then when you can, start heading east. This is the entrance.

_Tradale Village
Important buildings first.
Follow the southern wall south. Head south when you can.
The building you will reach is behind you. Go ahead and find the entrance.

_Tradale's Mana Hotel
A real mana hotel for once.
Heal, transportal, online trading/battles as usual, then we're out.

The next important building is back north from the hotel. When the eastern wall ends, head east, and you will come to the next building.

_Tradale's Manamon Marketplace
They sell pretty much the same things as the previous marketplaces sell, except there is only one piece of equipment here that you probably have not seen before.

$Jungle Javelin
Another piece of equipment that has no penalties whatsoever. If you are looking for a boost to your plant type moves, this javelin will do the job.
Slap this javelin on a plant type and you should expect some results.

Alright. Buy what needs buying, sell what needs selling, and we're off!

There are two other places you can check out here.
If you head west from the marketplace, and then north, you will find another building.

This house contains a locked chest. If you open it, you will get 10,000 gold. Talk about a huge amount of gold in a chest.
Near the chest is a person praising you after seeing you on the news. They acknowledge you are from Lellapol, and pester you about the Cave of Fates. If you remember, Crisselle forced you to go there with her.
The other person says there are 3 stone manamon that are only native to Kiarre. I honestly do not know which ones, but I would guess Volanteral, Bulderdash, and Turrubble. Eitehr that, or Brezgard, Karugard and Draakgard (more on those three later).
The chest in the upper right contains a Treasure Chest Key, so if you did not get to open the chest in the bottom right, now you can.
Alright, let's head out.

There is one more building we can check out before we go to the stadium.
Head west, and head into the next building.

_Offices of Dr. Corona
If you stick to the western wall and follow it north, you will find a gap in the western wall. Take a step or two west to activate a scene.
You will explain to her that you don't know what she does. However, she explains this to you.
She is all about time.
And apparently, she somehow has a time machine. And she also apparently knows that you have been through Requia, and is offering you the chance to revisit it.
If you didn't get a chance to see Requia in its entirety, this is your chance.
Head through the now open gap, and around Corona. There will be another gap in the western wall that you can take further west.
Again, find another gap in the western wall and continue west.
Finally, head south to hear a very strange machine.
Interacting with this machine will take you back to the catacombs.

There are some slight differences here that you will notice.
For one, there is now a teleporter near here that will send you straight to the western end of the catacombs, near the entrance of the hill.
There is a similar teleporter on the other end which will bring you back here.
Go and leave as you please.
There are things here you can do later, but that will be discussed in the post-game section of the guide.
Once you are done, go back to the normal portal. Instead of taking you back to the super computer, it will bring you back to the time machine.

Alright, time to head out.
Last but not least, the Tradale Stadium.
The stadium is actually not in this particular area of the village. You must swim to a different place.
You might of heard some water by the hotel. It's not actually there, however. It's behind a wall.
Act like you are going to the marketplace, but this time, head south to find the water.
Once you reach it, swim south into the next area.

_Tradale's Dragon Park
You can get off west or east. Either way, you are going to get to the stadium.
I personally like going east, since I believe it is quicker, so let's take that path.
Once you get off, head east a ways so you can get out of the gap, then head south.
There will be a gap if you come up to the southern wall that will allow you to continue south. Once you find it, stick to the eastern wall.
The wall will end abruptly, so head east. You will hear a building behind you. Go around it and head inside.

_Tradale Stadium
Type: Dragon
In this stadium, you will be given a variety of puzzles. Most of them include unscrambling letters to form a word.
Approach the first person.
To move the letters around, use your interaction key, move your cursor to the letter you want to swap, then use it again to swap the letters around.
To hear your currently formed word, use your up or down arrow.
Once you are finished, use Shift plus your interaction key to submit your answer.
Usually, when you complete a puzzle, you will have to battle the person that gave you the challenge.
. . . Spoiler. The word you want to spell is "scale."

@Dragon Keeper Queen
Ohmeleon is level 52
Ohmeleon is level 52
Ohmeleon is level 52
Why thank you.

Head slightly west, then north to the northern wall. Find the gap in the northern wall to the west, and continue north through it.
Now, head west, following the northern wall.
There's another word you have to unscramble.
. . . Spoiler. It's "dragon."

@Dragon Keeper Pascal
Amthysto is level 55
What nice people.

Head west a ways to expose a gap in the northern wall, and continue north.
At the next northern wall, head west for another challenge.
. . . Spoiler. The word is "treasure."

@Dragon Rider Landon
Ohmeleon is level 51
Dragetull is level 53
It was, for me at least.

The next puzzle is south.
. . . Spoiler. The word is "terrorize."

@Dragon Rider Sapphire
Dramegon is level 54
Thanks.

The next puzzle is a bit further.
Head all the way south, then follow the western wall north. A gap will be available in the western wall, so take it.
This person, you actually have to interact with.
. . . Spoiler. It's the name you chose for your character. In my case, "Tunmi."

@Dragon Rider Angel
Ohmeleon is level 52
Amthysto is level 52
Amthysto is level 52
Roar to you too, I guess?

The next puzzle is north until you reach the northern wall, then west.
This puzzle is a bit different. Again, interact with them.
Instead of arranging letters, you arrange words.
. . . Spoiler. The words in the correct order are, "The stadium leader is ready to battle."
This person doesn't require you to battle them, but they warn you about Tatsuo. She is indeed difficult to defeat.
Tatsuo is southwest of the area you were just in, and boy does she put up a fight.
Save, and get ready!

@@Stadium Leader Tatsuo
Amthysto is level 55 with a Stone Club equipped
Dramegon is level 55 with a Fairy Suit V2.0 equipped
Dragomier is level 57 with a Secondary Scale Uniform equipped
Glimerodo is level 55 with a Yellow Star equipped
Honestly? I can't really say a whole lot. Everything is dangerous. I'd say Dramagon and Amthysto are the only vulnerable ones out of the rest.
Watch your back with the Glimerodo, it has a Yellow Star equipped, since it is both Dragon and Electric.
Also watch out for the Dragomier. It is Flame, Air, and Dragon type. It is the final transformation of Drabao.
Thanks a lot.
She gives you the Dragon Wing key, which makes 5 keys.
She also, like other leaders, gives you a piece of equipment. This one is a Secondary Scale Uniform, which is what Dragomier was wearing.

$Secondary Scale Uniform
Watch out with this one. While it gives your manamon a 30 percent boost to moves that are not dragon type, it cuts both your defense and magic defense by 15.
It can only be worn by dragon type manamon.

5 down, 2 more to go!
Let's not dilly dally. Head out of the stadium, and it's time for the next key.

Next stop, Mordunt Island.
The easiest way to reach Mordunt Island is through Shadow Canyon, so let's go back.

_Back in Shadow Canyon
Find the water where you were not able to go before. It's now an escape route!
Swim north until you reach the transition.

_Kiarre Ocean
Manamon Available: Luscish, Friggle, Flounger
Once you reach the northern wall, head east a ways, then continue north through the gap.
At the northern wall, head all the way west, then south until you can go west again.
At the western wall, head north.
Ignore the gaps that come up, and continue north all the way to the next wall. To your east is a tamer.
There is indeed a variety.

@Swimmer Kevin
Dramegon is level 45
Sirenea is level 46
Tarboo is level 44
Frorgeril is level 45
Eksponge is level 45
Angillish is level 45
That's a very good idea. My Blade Dodderator had lots of fun.

Swim east to get off on a sort of island. Continue east, then hop back into the water.
Head north to face off against the next tamer.
That's a pretty intense dare.

@Swimmer Clara
Ninjarkin is level 47
Tenshaino is level 47
Hey, at least you are trying.
Also FYI, the shore is a bit southwest from here. Start moving! LOL
Well I guess she's not moving. Let's keep going then.

Head north around Clara, then head east through the narrow gap. Once you are able to go north, do so.
At the next northern wall, head east, and get off on another sandy area.
Before entering the water and swimming further east, don't forget to grab the item. It's a Treasure Chest key.
Back in the water, head all the way east, then head north.
At the northern wall, head west for another tamer.
Why are you... nevermind.

@Explorer Hayley
Sacroloon is level 46
Miterosier is level 46
That's true.

Swim through the gap, and then when you are able to, head north.
At the northern wall, head west.
Follow the western wall south for the next tamer.
You did not just make a baby shark reference. And yes, Reefe is a shark. For crying out loud!

@Kindergartner Alexander
Reefe is level 50
Submenno is level 47
Yes, we beat up your baby shark and your daddy shark. Or is it a brother shark? Ugh I don't know.
And yes, for context, Submenno is the transformation of Reefe.
It amuses me how this kid somehow has a level 50 Reefe. Reefe transforms way earlier than that, and I mean extremely early.
He wants to catch more sharks too. My head...

Head west from Alexander, and keep north. When you can go further north, do so.
At the next wall, travel west.
You can take either south gap, but the one that you first come upon is quicker. Head south through it a few steps, then head west.

_Mordunt Island
Head west out of the water.
This island is split up by different bodies of water.
The only building on this side of the water is the marketplace.
Head south of the water, and then west when you reach the southern wall to find the building.

_Mordunt's Manamon Marketplace
Most of the marketplaces have pretty much most medicinal items by now, so we won't cover those.
However, this one does offer Daedalus Dusts, and a piece of equipment called an Ocean Rock.

$Ocean Rock
If you have a water type manamon, consider giving it this. It increases water type attacks by 25 percent.
It does not have any penalties either, so it's a win win.

Buy what you wish to buy, sell what you wish to sell, and we're out.

That's all in this area.
Head back to where the water was, and get in the western portion.
Swim a bit west, then head south out of the water.
You will find yourself behind a building. Head around it, and inside.

_Mordunt's Mana Hotel
Is it just me, or are these hotels empty lately?
Anyways, do the usual. Heal, battle, trade, use the transportal, and let's head out.

This time, head back into the water, and get off on the western side. You will find a building, which is a house.

In this house is a person who is willing to give you their Bayowoof for your Symphonid (if you have one that is). It's up to you.
That's all that's here, so let's head out.

Now, jump back into the water east, and head south. We are now back at the hotel.
Find the water west of the hotel, and swim all the way west.
Once you are out, find the building, and let's head in.

_Mordunt Stadium
Type: Undead
Here we are. The next stadium.
This stadium is perhaps one of the most annoying stadiums in the game.
You will see why in a moment.
For now, head into the water east, and prepare to fight our first... oh. It's a ninja.
Yes. Do you though?

@Ninja Kid John
Skeletone is level 50
Skeletone is level 50
Apology accepted.
You will notice that when these tamers are defeated, they vanish. This will make sense eventually.

Get out of the water on the eastern side, then head north for the next tamer.
It's, yeah a bit I guess.

@Insect Collector Jeffrey
Bombusect is level 52
Whatever.

You may notice you can't go to the area where the next tamers are.
This is because you have to change the floor plan. And to do this, we're going to have some fun with switches.
Get into the water, and travel west back to the door. Keep south, and travel west. You will eventually hear yourself in a small gap.
Once you can go north, take a few steps. You will hear the first switch.
Don't mess with that one. Instead, head west, and then south for another switch. Flip that one, and you will hear a descending sound, followed by the text "floor plan changed."
Now head back to where the water originally was. You will notice it is no longer there, and it's just a solid wall.
This time, you will notice a strip of ice you can slide on, which is against the southern wall. Take it all the way east.
When you get off, you will now be able to reach the tamers that were blocked off before to the north.
Not if we make it first!

@Lad Jack
Fiendour is level 52
Of course they do!

Head north for the next tamer.
Bram. Think that's the stadium leader. Someone's in love.

@Lady Verity
Bombusect is level 53
Whoopsies.

Slide back west, and then head north to get off the ice.
This time, head back to the switch which replaced the water with ice. Head north from that one. Ignore the one in front of you, that will revert the other area to water, which is pointless now.
Instead, head east, and then north for yet another switch. Flip this one.
You will notice that as soon as the plan changes, the western wall will be further away from you than it was before you flipped it. Head to it, then follow it north.
At the northern wall, head west, then north again all the way.
Now head east for the next tamer.
Wow, now that's just rude. Something about you ninjas man.

@Ninja Kid Anastasia
Morghoul is level 49
Fiendour is level 50
You'd be better off undead? Um, that's a new twist.

Now, head back to the switch we flipped. This time, head south of it, and flip the opposite switch. It is the first switch you come across when you head west from the door.
From this switch, head west, and act like you are going to go flip the switch to the south, but don't actually flip it.
Instead, take the gap in the western wall that was not there before, all the way to another tamer.
You know? I've not really considered that. I've had ideas, but I haven't formed plans.

@Cool Kid Mila
Skeletone is level 50
Dormanoid is level 50
That sounds like a plan.

Continue west until you can head north. You will reach another tamer.
Why is this important?

@Ghost Hunter Anton
Maustodon is level 49
Dormanoid is level 50
Someone needs to bring their esteem up. You look fine. I think. I can't see.

You will notice that upon defeating him, a forcefield will deactivate. That means every tamer is gone.
In case you didn't know, the forcefield was directly north from the door.
Now, make your way back to the door. The switches have no significance anymore.
Alright. Time for the stadium battle!
The leader was the one behind the forcefield, but he's exposed now. Get ready!

@@Stadium Leader Bram
Skeletone is level 58 with a Megaphone quipped
Maustodon is level 58 with a Fire Suit V2.0 equipped
Jagzeom is level 60 with an Unknown Bone equipped
Dormanoid is level 58 with a Sword of the Undead equipped
Honestly, I don't think this stadium is too difficult. The quipment is good, don't get me wrong. But I think this one is on the easier side. If you have a fighting and ice type, you're pretty much set.
And now you have your 6th key, the Corpse Key.
He also gives you an Unknown Bone (Jagzeom had one on), which gives a manamon a critical hit boost to undead attacks. You can put this on any manamon, but you probably want it to be on an undead type for the best results.

Alright, that's 6 down. One last stadium to go!
Head out the door, and we're done here!

Well, that's Mordunt Island for you.
Next stop, Sonasette City.
Sonasette City is able to be reached via the Elatia Path, a place that we haven't been to ever since the beginning of this guide. Time to revisit those early level manamon.

_Back in Elatia City
If you coptered back, simply head south from the hotel, and you will be taken to the path. If you need to heal after the stadium, you can do that too before heading out.

_Back in Elatia Path
Head south for a bit, but do not use the western wall quite yet. I'd say after fifteen steps.
When a gap appears in the western wall, take it west.
In the next western wall will be another gap, so take it west a little bit, then stick to the southern wall as you travel west.
Once a gap comes up in the southern wall, take it south.
Now remember, I didn't lead you this way in the beginning of the guide. I said to go north from Lellapol Village, because south is where we are right now.
You will find yourself by water. Go ahead and get in, then swim east.
To the south is another entrance. Let's go through.

_Sonasette Tunnel
Manamon Available: Promolder, Zintrabat
This tunnel leads to the city.
Slide across the ice south, then basically travel all the way east. It's pretty much a straight shot.

_Sonasette City
This is perhaps one of the most neatly laid out cities in the game.
The first building you will encounter upon entry, is the stadium. You will notice that when you try to enter, it says you must battle the two city's elders.
In order to access this stadium, the process is a bit different.
Usually, you would just do what you have to do, go into the stadium, and fight the tamers.
This time, however, you must find two elders, and face them in combat. Then, you will be granted access.
That being said, let's head past the stadium for now. Travel east.
If you head north after the stadium, you will find another building. This will also say you are unable to enter.
Finally, head back south from that building, and take the path east. You will reach the next building, so head inside.

_Sonasette's Mana Hotel
Heal up, use the transportal, trade or battle.
This time, we actually have something we can do in the mana hotel.
Usually, there will be a room to the west that is most often empty.
This time, however, there is someone important.
From the bed and the transportal, head west, and then north.
Save, and then interact with the person.
This is one of the elders, who goes by Dorothea. She explains that since this is a private community and a stadium was recently built, it has attracted outsiders, and to prove that you are worthy, you must defeat the pair of them to qualify.
When you are ready, select yes in the dialog, and let's go!

@Old Woman Dorothea
Tylavile is level 55
Vultair is level 55
Magmizire is level 55
Thank you.

Alright, that's all that's here. Let's head out!

One more elder that we have to battle.
Head around the hotel to the east, then west to get behind it. You will find yourself on grass.
Head through the grass north, then west to snag 1500 gold. After that, head east to find a gate. Head through.

_Validation Road
Manamon Available: Erroir, Sluggugg
We will be back here later, but the other elder is here.
Head to the north wall, then follwo it east to reach her.
I personally don't really like Hester's views, but it is what it is.

@Old Woman Hester
Golavath is level 55
Zebbabern is level 55
Blaizond is level 55

Alright. Now that you have fought both elders, you now have access to both the market, and the stadium.
Head back west, and then south through the gate.

_Back in Sonasette City
Head back around the hotel, and then west through the path.
Eventually you will be able to go north. Head north, and you will be able to enter the marketplace successfully.

_Sonasette's Manamon Marketplace
This marketplace has the standard stock that previous markets have had, except this one comes with a few perks.
For one, sweet and silver tonics are sold here. They are quite pricey, but given their rarity in the game, I personally think it's fair.
For two, this marketplace pretty much grabs everything from prior ones, and crams them into this one. Mananets, meganets, giganets, etc, they are all here.
Lastly, there is a nice little piece of equipment here.

$Firebrand
This is quite a nice piece of wood. It increases flame attacks by 25 percent.
Again, no penalties or drawbacks. Slap this on a flame manamon, and increase its power by 25 percent.

Alright, that's it, so let's head out.

This city is so private, that there are no houses in sight. The only other building that remains is the stadium itself, so let's go ahead and head in. It's west of the marketplace.

_Sonasette Stadium
Type: Flame
But I'm guessing you already knew that, as there are fires on both sides of you.
This stadium has no tamers, just the leader. The elders were technically the tamers.
Be careful as you tread north, as you will find flames in front of you.
You will also hear an all too familiar wizzing sound, which will protect you from the lasers. You are on your own with the flames, however.
Once you step on it and you hear Aaron's disturbing demonic-like voice, start running through the flames, and be sure to dodge them, as they move left to right.
Find the entrance, head through, and then sit back and watch the barrier protect you from the oncoming barrage as you sail across the conveyor belt.
The belt will take you right to the leader.
He realizes his traps are quite painful, so he does have a teleporter on the right that will let you go back and try again.
Alternatively, you can use some hopefully existent medical items in your inventory.
If you select no in the dialog, he says the heat needs to be turned up. Let's turn it down instead!

@@Stadium Leader Blaze
Escargma is level 60 with an Element Guard equipped
Ursinearator is level 63 with a Burner Charm equipped
Lantlare is level 60 with a Haunted Hat equipped
Blaizond is level 60 with a Torch Hammer equipped
This leader puts up quite a fight.
Watch out for his Escargma. It comes with Inferno Overdrive, which is extremely dangerous if you do not have a manamon to resist it.
Ursinearator is another dangerous one, possessing Flame Blizzard and a set of other moves I can't remember off the top of my head at the moment. It has a Burner Charm on, which can be rather dangerous.
Lantler is a flame ghost type. The issue is it gets more ghost moves than flame, so I wouldn't be too worried. It does have a hat on though, which boosts ghosts attacks, so watch your back!
Blaizond is a pretty dangerous one. Possessing a Torch Hammer, its moves are heavily boosted, although remember that the Torch Hammer has a significant drawback. It is more vulnerable to water type attacks.
Wow, those elders are his aunts? Had no clue.
He's out of keys. Guess you won't be having your last key.
Let's go. Hit an arrow.
Haha, he was joking. He has a key. It is the Ember Key.
He also gives you a nice piece of equipment called a Burner Charm. If you were wondering why Ursinearator was difficult, it is because this charm boosts flame moves if the prior move was also a flame move.

Alright. Now, take the teleporter, which will bring you back to the entrance of the stadium. Let's get going.

Well, there you have it guys! You have all 7 keys now. This is the end of the guide, see ya!





I'm kidding, I'm kidding. We still have a ways to go.
Let's not dally. Heal up at the hotel if you have to.
To survive what comes next, make sure you are stocked up on medicinal goods. Herbs, miracles and revives are probably your best bet.
Have some nets on hand too if you wish to catch some manamon you have been hoping to get. By this point, most of the manamon are in their final transformations (emphasis on most).
Alright. Head back to the gate, and let's continue!

_Back on _Validation Road
This time, head south to start going in the direction we really want to go.
On this road, each key that you have earned in the 7 stadiums will be used to unlock each gate.
The first gate is the first stadium, which is the pest key. Interact with the gate and use the key to open it.
Head south for the next gate. This is the tide key.
Head south again. Next is the crop key.
This time, you will head south, and then east. There will be a gap in the southern wall, so take it south, then head east for the next gate. It needs the demon key.
Next up, to the east is the dragon wing key.
Now, head south to use the corpse key on the next gate.
South again is the ember key.
Now, head all the way south, then east. Skip the entrance to the north, and let's take a quick detour.
Near the eastern wall, and not too far north, you will find a Powerhit Bracer.

$Powerhit Bracer
This piece of equipment is quite rare. It decreases the damage dealt by moves which have greater than or equal to 90 effect points by 25 percent.
However, it does cut defenses a bit. They are not very drastic, but just keep that in mind.

If you head further north, you will hear an arcade-like whizzing sound. This is a game disk, and the game is called Treadmill.
Alright, now head all the way south, a bit west, and take that entrance to the north.

_Ascendance Path
Manamon Available: Bulderdash, Banshreek, Simulon, Clubble, Redonkeus, Zebbabern, Giganatan, Oxenik, Maustodon
This manamon availability remains pretty consistent throughout most of the areas in the path, so not putting it in every section. However, some are included in here that can not be found everywhere, but still exist.
In this particular area, you need to slide up the stairs on a large piece of ice.
Take 2 steps right. I'd recommend starting from the left side so you can line it up exactly. Then, slide forward, and up the stairs.

_Ascendance Path F2
Head north, then east for your first tamer.
Note that these are experienced tamers, so they are likely to have medicinal items.
It does have some flare.

@Lad Cross
Refloron is level 55
Miterosier is level 56
Brain Dodderator is level 55
Blade Dodderator is level 55
If you want to interact with him to find out how he got his name, feel free.

Head around Cross. You will notice that there is a boulder to the north. Push it north until you are able to go west, then do so.
Prepare to fight the next tamer,who is touring the Ascendance Path. He found interest in Kiarre's it seems.

@Guitarist Chuck
Ninjarkin is level 57
Ghoperto is level 57
As a Manamon 1 player, I agree.

Head west from Chuck to the western wall. Follow it all the way north, then head west when you can.
Take the path north and stick to the eastern wall. A gap will come up in the wall with a boulder. Push it east until you are able to go north.
Head north around the boulder, then east. Be careful when you head east through the upcoming eastern gap, there is an electric current.
There is a tamer on the opposite side, who enjoys online battles and trading, and recommends them to you. I recommend them as well.

@Old Man Lincoln
Kamadeir is level 56
Treezon is level 56
It all comes down to who you are fighting in the end.

If you head north of Lincoln and then east, there is another gap in the eastern wall with electricity, so be careful.
At the eastern wall, head south.
There are a bunch of rocks here. Keep breaking them with your hammer as you head east until you are able to go north.
Go north and open the chest to obtain Healing Mist.
We now return to our schedule rock breaking task. Keep heading east and smashing the rocks.
You will eventually find a southern gap, so take it. At the end, head east.
Once you can head south again, continue south, and prepare for another batch of tamers.
Yes, let's fight!

@Actor Rachel
Mightauras is level 56
Delazzard is level 56
Turoison is level 56
It can be.

South is an exit.

This is an outdoor area, so if you need to use your pocket copter, feel free.
Quick detour. From the entrance/exit (your choice on what to call it), head south to the wall, then west. Grab the 1000 gold sitting there.
From the entrance into the water, ignore the path north. There is a current you can't cross.
Instead, head west through the water to confront the next tamer.
What on this earth is an electrician doing in the water?

@Electrician Melissa
Javoltrik is level 58
Not surprised there.

Get out of the water to the south. Eventually, head west a ways for the next tamer.
Haha, that happens to me sometimes. And yes, a battle would be nice.

@Programmer Rupert
Placebot is level 60 with a Placebot Power Addon equipped
Placebot is level 60 with a Placebot Arsenal equipped.
Placebot is level 60 with Placebot Armor equipped
Tempting, but Aaron didn't implement that.

There is a gap not too far west from him that heads south, so take it. At the southern wall, head west.
Flip the sswitch, and you will hear that the water current has been reversed. This will allow us to ride the current we couldn't ride back in the water.
Retrace your steps back to the water. Head back east, and then take the current north, just as if you were riding on a conveyor belt.
Ignore the switch, that will reverse the current. Instead, head west from the northern wall and board the next current.
You will notice you will swim past a lot of items. Rapidly press your interaction key to collect a bunch of hidden gold, then every now and then, bump the southern wall and snatch the items with your interaction key.
You may notice that when you grab the items, you may end up in a gap. Just head back north to continue being pulled west.
If you miss, you can use the teleporter in the water to send you back to the beginning.
After you are done item collecting, head south for another tamer.
And how would you know this?

@Country Girl Nelly
Grizzlord is level 59
Vultair is level 58
Rhinodyo is level 59
Wow. Nothing to say. She vanishes too.

Now just do a loop around. West all the way, north, and then out of the water to the north or east, depending on how you approached it.
Keep south. When you reach the eastern wall, take a step or two north, and keep heading east.
You will hear an entrance to the north, so take it.

This area has a lot of open spaces, so be prepared in case you reach a dead end.
Head west, and when you are able to go north, do so.
Head all the way north, west, then north through a gap. At the next northern wall, follow it east.
Ignore the first gap, it's a dead end. Instead, aim for the second one, then head all the way north and up the stairs.

_Ascendance Path F3
This floor is a bit of a weird one.
Scattered all around the area are a variety of pits that drop into different locations. You need to find and take the correct one.
You might want to save in case you go down the wrong one, but I will direct you to the location of the pit we want to take.
Head south past the stairs. Ignore the gaps that appear to the west and east.
At the southern wall, head west. Ignore gaps to the north, and instead head south once you reach the western wall.
The space will be a little open, but ignore it and head all the way south. Follow the southern wall west, and then take a step or two south so you can continue heading west.
At the western wall, take a few steps north, then continue heading west.
In this area, fall down the pit you find.

_Back in Ascendance Path F2
This is an area of floor 2 that we couldn't reach.
You will hear a ladder not too far to the right. Head east, then go around the wall so you can climb up.

_Back in Ascendance Path F3
Head all the way west, and there will be two gaps.
Do not take the first gap west! It has a teleporter, which will teleport you all the way back to the beginning of floor 2. As in, the place we left outside.
Instead, take the gap north of it west. When you can head north, do so, then head west at the northern wall.
Continue traveling north until you hit the northern wall. Follow it west, and a wall will appear behind you. At this point, head north and up the stairs.

_Ascendance Path F4
So this isn't actually our route, but let's stop here real quick.
Head north, and you will eventually come across a rock.
Psych! It's another turtle!
Specifically, a level 55 Turrubble. Definitely not level 10. Catch it, or kill it. Your choice.
Continue north past the killed or caught Turrubble, and you will find another r...
Aaron? What's with you and turtles? It's yet another level 55 Turrubble! Catch it or kill it.
Continue north, past that turtle.
Oh my God. Another... rock... ahem.
Just, you know... catch it or kill it.
Head north, and then go west when you are able to. Open the chest to obtain 5 giganets.
From the chest, head east, and you will here another chest. Open it to obtain...
Oh, hi there, Pandourbit!
And guess what? It's catchable! If you really want it, now's your chance! After all, you're back in the real world.
Use the 5 giganets you have if you plan to catch it if you didn't have nets before; That's why I made you go west first.
Okay, back on route. Head back to the western wall, and head back south to the stairs. Do not  go down.
From the stairs, head west. The wall to the north will open up somewhere around here, so find it and continue north for a tamer.
Goodness, another reporter?

@Reporter Jeremy
Cofatena is level 57
Schemu is level 58
Maybe?

Continue north past the reporter (who was standing there a minute ago), and find the northern wall. Follow it west.
You will hear a wall to the south appear behind you, along with a small gap in it. Take it south.
There will be two gaps here, east and west. The east one takes you back to where the reporter was, so instead go west.
Eventually you will be able to go south, so start heading in that direction. Find the gap in the western wall and take it west.
More tamers to the south. Let's go and fight them.
An interviewer? Who is desperate to know about quite a lot of things.

@Interviewer Cosette
Werewolfsyre is level 60
Bayowoof is level 58
Wolfsyre is level 59
That option is definitely preferred.
Also, am I the only one that noticed if you replace the O with an A, and then add an extra S, his name would be Cassette?

Immediately behind where Cosette was standing is a chest, containing 2 Ultra Encounter Downs.
Take a step south around the chest, and you will immediately be confronted by the next tamer.
Would have been helpful, but this was more physical, not magical.

@Magician Celeste
Chimerus is level 57
Bellaard is level 58
Myaneko is level 58
Okay then.

From Celeste, head back north to the northern wall, and then follow it west. There will be a gap in the western wall if you take a few steps south, so continue west through it.
At the western wall, head south. Go east and grab the item, it's a Silver Tonic.
Go back to the western wall, and there will be another gap in the wall. Head west through it.
When you are able to go north, do so. You will hear an entrance, so let's head through.

In this area, you will notice that you immediately get tugged on a belt. When it ends, you will be tugged again by yet another. Then again, and again. This will pretty much take you in circles.
What you want to do here, is when you hear the 4th click, get ready to head east, or to the right. You will get off on an area you can actually move. Do not go back west, you'll be sent round and round again.
From here, head east to the eastern wall, then follow it south. You will hear water. Once you find a gap, head through, and you will be able to swim.
Be sure to be at the southern most end of the gap, this will make things easier.
Once you get in, you will be pulled by currents, the same way you were pulled by the belts. When you hear the stairs, force your way south. You can also just keep bumping the southern wall until the stairs come up too.

_Ascendance Path F5
Get out of the water to the west, and then head north to open a chest, which contains an Elec Claw.
From the chest, head south until you can go west. You can hear the tamer already, who I am sure is waiting for you to approach.
Oof. Well, this tamer actually has some advice. Do not, use a dust here! It's not a cave. Use your pocket copter instead.
Also, this is a nurse.

@Nurse Florida
Craggallem is level 58
Delazzard is level 58
Mortrex is level 58
Thanks for willing to do it anyway.

Head north of Florida, until you reach the northern wall. We have another music puzzle to solve.
Web 1 is all the way to the right, and web 5 is all the way to the left. Quartantula is to the left of web 5, blocking a crack in the western wall.
Here is the sequence.
Web 4, web 3, web 5, web 1, web 2
head through the exposed gap for another tamer.
What's with you guys trying to find suspicious manamon? This guy's brother is Donald, and that was way back in the guide when we were facing off against level 30 manamon.

@Detective Kyle
Jagzeom is level 58
Bombusect is level 60
No? You should be looking for it.

Head south, and through the next entrance.

Head to the southern wall, it's not that far. Follow it east, then take the gap that appears to the south.
At the next southern wall, continue east, and at the eastern wall, head south.
The next wall to the south will come up rather abruptly, so follow it east. You will hear another rock, so break it with your hammer. This will expose a gap in the southern wall, so head south through it.
Quick Detour
Once you reach the next southern wall, head east, and you will have the same task. Break the rock, and continue south through the newly presented gap.
Head east once you reach the next wall to the south, and you will run into a Medical Miracle. Use it if necessary, otherwise keep it and use it wisely.
If you took the detour, simply follow the wall back west, then north through the gap.
The route we want to take is opposite the area we broke the rock, so just head north.
At the northern wall, head west, and you will hear the northern wall vanish, along with a wall appearing behind you. Simply continue north.
At the next wall, follow it west. When you reach the western wall, you will notice the wall to the north has shifted forward slightly. Take a step north, then head west through a gap that has come up.
A wall will now be to your south. Continue west until you can no longer hear it, and then head south.
Once you reach the southern wall, follow it all the way west to find a gap in the wall. Take it south.
Head to the southern wall. If you listen closely, you can hear the entrance we came through. It just so happens to be behind this wall, or perhaps a few walls.
Anyways, follow this wall west, and you will start to hear a ladder. At the western wall, head north to the northern wall.
Take a few steps west to align yourself with the ladder, and then head north, and up we go.

_Ascendance Path F6
You will slide north on ice, then you will be placed on even ground.
Instead, what we want to do, is to slide back south. Ensure that you are not sliding directly back to the ladder.
Once you are up against the southern wall, slide west, and get off.
Follow the western wall you reached north, and take the small gap in it west, ignoring the gap to the south that appears.
Even the master stadium has to be a little evil sometimes. We have some hoops to go through.
First, we have a boulder. Get on its left side, then start pushing it right until you can go south.
At the southern wall, follow it east.
Once you can go south, save. We have to deal with flames, again!
They do move pretty quickly, so time it right and continue south. There are about 3 of these (assuming I counted correctly) so be careful.
At the southern wall, find the gap that continues south, and take it.
The first thing you will hear is a chest, and in fact you run right into it. Bingo! A Revive.
Let's take a quick detour, especially if you are in need of medicinal items.
Head east, and eventually you will hear ice. Slide all the way east, and then slide all the way south. Once you get off, search around in this little space for a chest, which contains 3 Master Herbs.
Now, go to the southern wall, and follow the wall west until you find the ice. Slide all the way west.
Heading to the western wall, follow it north, and when you can go west, do so. You will now be back on track, and you will know this by using the chest containing the Revive as a landmark.
With that said and done, head all the way west, keeping to the southern wall. When it opens, head south.
When you reach the southern wall, follow it west, and you will start to hear a tamer, as well as some stairs. Let's deal with the tamer first.
Don't blame you. Most synthesizers don't even pronounce Tunmi correctly. They either pronounce it Tun-My, or Tun-Me. It's Too-Me.

@Programmer Leah
Symphonid is level 62
Best of luck.
If you do interact with her, she says she's late for a meeting, and vanishes.
Now, head up the stairs, to the next floor.

_Ascendance Path f7
This place is very annoying.
Remember the Vermechaw Powerplant? It's just like that. On this floor resides several ladders we must ascend, and flick a switch.
Let's start with the first ladder, which is behind us. Move around the wall that is in front of it, then climb up.

_Ascendance Path f8, Ladder 1
You will start to hear the switch to the east, but we can't access it that way.
Instead, we need to go west from the ladder. At the western wall head south.
At the southern wall, we are going to start zigzagging. Step east, south, east, south, etc etc, until it straightens out, then you can finally head east normally.
You may want to use the northern wall for guidance as you head east, as the switch will be in a gap that is located there. When you find it, head north, and flip the switch.
Now retrace your steps back, this time going west, north, west, north, when you reach the western wall.
Head north a ways after zigzagging, then head east. The ladder will come up behind you, so head south, and back down.

_Back in Ascendance Path f7
Once you climb down, immediately head west. Another ladder will come up, but this time you'll have to go around to the northern end to access it.

_Ascendance Path f8, Ladder 2
This one's really easy. Head all the way south, then all the way east, and flip the switch.
Now head back west, and then north, then head back down.

_Back in Ascendance Path f7
Take a few steps west, and aim for the ladder to the north.

_Ascendance Path F8, Ladder 3
You will find yourself sandwiched between a wall to the north and to the south. Just head east until you are able to go north, then take the narrow gap north.
At the northern wall, follow it east, and a wall will come up to your south. When it opens, head south.
At the southern wall, head all the way east to find a gap that has appeared. Take it south.
Once you find the next wall, follow it west. It's a bit of a walk, but eventually, you will find the switch. Flip it.
Now head all the way back east, then north through the gap.
At the northern wall, head west to the western wall, then head north.
Once you are able to, head west, and then at the next western wall, head south.
Now, follow the southern wall back west, and down the ladder.

_Back in Ascendance Path f7
The next ladder is about 3 steps west from the ladder we just descended.
Head 3 steps or so west, then north, and up we go.

_Ascendance Path F8, Ladder 4
You can't go north, south or east here. However, you will hear water to the west, so get in.
Swim north, and you will eventually hear the switch in the water. How it is surviving here, I know not. But hey, game logic! Go to it, flip it, and let's go back.
Head all the way south, then get out of the water, and go back down the ladder.

_Back in Ascendance Path f7
Head west, and you will bump into the wall for the next ladder. Head to the southern side, and climb up.

_Ascendance Path F8, Ladder 5
This is quite a confusing one, so I'll try to explain to the best of my ability.
First, the starting pattern is quite easy.
Head to the eastern wall, take the gap north, head all the way east, take the gap north, etc.
Eventually, however, the pattern will change.
When you find that you suddenly cannot go east, head west, find the gap in the northern wall, then take it north.
Now, continue the north east pattern, until you find yet again, that you can't go east. This time, go west, and here comes the fun part!
Head all the way west, then south through a small gap. Time for zigzagging! West, south, west, south, etc. We are essentially going in reverse.
Eventually it will straighten out, so head south to the southern wall, then west.
You will reach the western wall almost immediately, so follow it south. A gap will be available in the western wall, so take it west.
At the next wall, take a step or two south, then a few steps west. Flip the switch.
Now, use the north east pattern yet again, since now, we are going in the opposite direction. The zigzags will now be north and east as well.
Eventually you will find that the north east pattern does not work, so you will go in reverse, west, then south.
Eventually you will be able to go west toward the ladder, and climb down.
Hopefully I explained this clearly, my apologies if it's too complex.

_Back in Ascendance Path f7
The last ladder is direclty behind you. Take it up.

_Ascendance Path F8, Ladder 6
Take a step south, and you will be pulled by some belts.
Once you get off of the last belt, head to the southern wall, then hop back onto the belts. Eventually, you will be moved onto ice, slide a bit, then onto solid ground.
You can't actually come back this way, however to the northeast, there is a cannon. If you fire yourself to the right, you will be flying all the way back to the beginning of this area, just north of the belts.
What we should focus on, however, is the stairs. Head to the northern wall, then follow it east. Align yourself with the stairs to the north, and up we go.

_Ascendance Path F9
There is a blizzard here. This is a good place to train holy, sound, fighting, stone, and steel types.
We are searching for a metal post. It's not against any of the walls, but it's a distance away from the stairs.
Once you find it, climb up.

_Ascendance Path F10
There is a sandstorm here. This is a good place to train plant, water, and ice types.
Stick to the southern wall, and head all the way east, ignoring the gaps that come up to the north.
Once you reach the eastern wall, follow it north.
At the northern wall, head west until you reach the western wall, then head south through a narrow gap.
At the southern wall, head west.
You will find a boulder. Push it left a few steps until you hear a gap in the northern wall. Don't go south, that leads back where we came.
When you can go west, do so, and you will hear a metal post in this area. Climb up.

_Ascendance Path F9
I never understood why you go back down after going up to floor 10, but it is what it is.
It's raining here. This is a good place to train plant and electric types.
After exploring both the southern and eastern bodies of water, I can confirm that the southern one goes no where in particular, except a chest containing a Revival Mist. If you want to go get it, feel free, but since it is extremely off course, I won't be documenting it here.
That being said, head east, and start swimming.
You may bump into the eastern wall, so take a few steps south and continue east. Don't go too far south, there's an area where there's just another wall to the east.
Stick to the northern wall as you travel east, as a gap will come up. Take it north all the way, and continue east for a bit.
At the eastern wall, start heading south. When you reach the southern wall, take a few steps west, and a gap will pop up, so continue south through it.
When you reach the southern wall again, head west for yet another gap in the wall, and continue south.
Stick to the eastern wall as you are heading south, as a gap will eventually come up. Start heading east, and you will hear a metal post. Up we go.

_Ascendance Path F10
It's sunny here. This is a good place to train water, earth, and stone types.
Swim out of the water north, and be careful. Notice that the ground is on fire to the east, so don't go there!
Head north until you hear the fire is behind you. You will know this because the pitch of the fire will drop.
Once it is behind you, head to the eastern wall, and beware of the flames to your north. There are several of these, so just make your way slowly north.
Or, you can go and quickly grab those 2 giganets in the southeastern corner, now that the fire is to your west.
Watch out, because the last one is positioned at the gap horizontally. Once it's out of the way, take a step north, then head east through the gap, and climb up the post.

_Ascendance Path F9
Again, no clue why you just sort of drop back to the 9th floor, but whatever.
It's raining acid here. This is a good place to train magic and earth types.
I despise this floor. It's practically a maze.
Once you go to the western wall, start heading south, and you will know what I mean.
I did explore this floor before writing this, so I'll try to explain as best as I can, and the route I took. There are probably much shorter and less cumbersome routes, but this got me to the required destination.
Head south, and ignore all the gaps that come past. The gap you want is the one that is closest to the southern wall, that goes west, so head through it.
Time for more gap ignoring. Ignore the gaps that come up to the north and south, and keep heading west until you find the western wall.
Head south to the southern wall, and the western wall will shift slightly to the left. Head to it, then start zigzagging. West, north, west, north.
Eventually, you will be able to go west without any zigzags, and stick to the northern wall. When it disappears, head north.
Ignore the west and east gaps, and focus on reaching the northern wall. Head west once you reach it.
Pay no mind to the gaps you come across, and focus on getting to the western wall. Upon reaching it, head south to the southern wall.
Now head east, and ignore the gaps to your north, and aim for the eastern wall.
The last gap to the north is when you reach the eastern wall, which is the one you should take. A gap will abrutply appear in the eastern wall as you head north, so take it east.
Finally, when you reach the eastern wall, head south to leave this wretched floor.

In this area, you will find four things.
Heading west is a teleporter, which will move you back outside the entrance.
The second is a forcefield, which is blocking access to the stairs that go up.
The third is your traditional Manalith healing unit.
The final one is if you head south, you will be stopped by a message that tells you that there are boulders with letters on them.
There are plenty of these in Manamon 1, but this is the one in Manamon 2.
In order to lower the forcefield, we must spell the word it wants us to spell by moving the boulders to form the word.
To see what a letter is without moving the boulder, you can hold down the Control key, then press Space, C, or Enter to see what it says.
The word we want to spell is
MASTER
Honestly, it doesn't matter if you do it in reverse (retsam) or in order (master).
In this case, we are going to do retsam, the reason being it is extremely easy to spell it with the way the boulders are positioned.
The letter M is positioned south of the healing unit, a step or two from the eastern wall. We will leave it there.
Southwest of M is the letter A. Get behind it, and all we have to do is push it forward twice. M and A should now be together, in a straight line, with A to the left of M. We will need to have all the letters in this fashion.
Align yourself with A so that it is to your right, then head to the southern wall. Head west, and you'll find S in front of you.
Push S forward twice, then get on its left side, and push it right so that it bumps into A.
Now, get on the left side of S, and head to the southern wall. Follow it west to find T, which will also be in front of you.
Push T forward twice, then get on its left side, and push it to the right until it is up against S.
Now, head directly west of T. Skip the first boulder, that's R. Instead, aim for the boulder that is near the western wall, this one is E.
Get in front of E, and push it backward once. Then, get on its left side, and start pushing it to the right, until it hits T.
Finally, take a step or two west, and you will find R. Get in front of R, and push it backward once.
And now to complete the puzzle, get on the left side of R, and push it to the right so that it hits E.
You will hear the familiar sound of the forcefield lowering. We can now head up the stairs.
Before you go dashing up those stairs, make sure to heal, and save. You'll see why.

_Ascendance
This is just an empty space. All you literally do here, is go north. No turns or anything. It's a straight shot.
Or is it...
Well well well. If it isn't another hyper.

@@Hyper Grandlan
Level: 53
Honestly, this thing doesn't deserve to be called a hyper.
Besides its ability to spin webs like Hyper Symphonid, counter like the Eternity Angel, health restoration, and its usual abilities of not being able to be put to sleep and whatnot, this is just your average Grandlan. If Aaron was aiming for hyper, this isn't.
Just take it down, and be done with it.
You don't get a whole lot of experience for ridding of it either.

So you are probably wondering how hypers are still roaming around.
It's simple. Only what was inside that dimension was destroyed. Which means whatever is still out here still exists.
We now return to our regularly scheduled walk through this boring environment.
Keep walking, until you hear an entrance.
Ascendance path, complete!

_Master Stadium, Outside
So the location isn't actually called Master Stadium Outside, but I thought it'd be better to do this to sort of separate it a bit.
The only building here is the stadium itself, so let's head in.

_Master Stadium, Inside
This place is essentially everything you have seen in terms of cities, all in one spot.
This first section is a sort of mana hotel spinoff.
North of the door is a bed. Northeast of this bed is a transportal.
West of the bed is the person you talked to when you originally came here, who is glad to see you as a challenger this time around.
To the west of that person, located in an alcove, is the wireless communications person.
North of the person is a door, so let's head through.

This is essentially a spinoff of the manamon marketplace. It is also the entrance to the challengers that await you.
These are split into two areas. The northwest portion is the seller, and the northeast portion is the next door. Keep in mind once you go through that door, unless you saved before, there's no turning back!
I doubt I need to explain the market to you anymore, as it contains mostly everything you have seen so far.
The equipment descriptions are short and straight to the point, with most penalties not left out (emphasis on most), so you're good to go there.
Alright. It's time to do this. All of this travel has lead up to this final moment.
Note that all of these individuals are well skilled. Expect their manamon to be difficult to face off against. Most, if not all of them will also have equipment on their manamon. Most of them you have already seen before, so I won't necesarily write down what they have.
Head through that door in the northeast section, and let's go!

_Master Stadium, Battle 1
For each oponent, there will be a door to the north of them. So I'll just skip to the opponents.
Our first opponent is Lionel. He uses fighting type manamon.

@@Master Tamer Lionel
Javoltrik is level 58
Giganatan is level 58
Kangachan is level 58
Ninjarkin is level 58
Rumblebee is level 58

_Master Stadium, Battle 2
Our second opponent is Victoria, and she uses ghost types.

@@Master Tamer Victoria
Ureinaman is level 60
Sanctosole is level 58
Snowmonno is level 59
Sylphantom is level 60
Mortrex is level 59

_Master Stadium, Battle 3
Next, we have a steel type user, with a poorly executed pun.

@@Master Tamer Diamond
Remullion is level 59
Cofatena is level 60
Mantasteel is level 60
Titomaton is level 59
Placebot is level 61
Watch out for Placebot. It has way better strength due to its Plasebot Sword, but it does lack defense, however.
Jeez. Each of those made me cringe...

_Master Stadium, Battle 4
Next up is Dexter. We met him in Mechamo when fighting off those bullies. He uses standard types.

@@Master Tamer Dexter
Erroir is level 61
Ghost Leonatar is level 62
Grizzlord is level 60
Artisoul is level 64
Werewolfsyre is level 60
Thanks, Dexter.

And now, time for the final battle!

_Master Stadium Waiting Room
This room is just an empty room, so just keep going to the next door which is northeast in this area.
You'll notice upon entering, you will hear voices speaking. You can probably figure out who is who.
You will be directed back to the room by a staff member. This time though, when you go to the door, save!

_Master Stadium, Master Battle
All the hard work has led up to this final battle.
However, it turns out there are two people here.
The first one is Rena.
The second one is Mercilla.
The way this works is you will witness them battling. The one who wins is the one you will end up fighting for the master title.
Sometimes Rena will win, and other times Mercilla will. So it all comes down to which one deals the final blow.
Below, I have included both battles, in case you get either one. Keep in mind when you come to challenge the stadium again in the future, whoever you fought now will be the one you fight again, skipping the whole battle scene.
let's do this!
I got Rena, so that's the first battle I will write down. I'll then load up the backup save I made to try and get Mercilla so I can document both battles.
Update: Upon loading my backup save and entering, Mercilla won, so I didn't have to try this sefveral times. Makes it all the more easier to write down.

@@Manamon Master Rena
Submenno is level 64
Araknite is level 65
Blade Dodderator is level 66
Mondevol is level 64
Sirenea is level 64
Bulderdash is level 65
You did good, Rena. It was an honor to fight you.

@@Manamon Master Mercilla
Rescumo is level 64
Tarboo is level 64
Maustodon is level 65
Brain Dodderator is level 66
Kamadeir is level 66
Volanteral is level 64
It was an honor to fight you as well. Thank you for all your help.

And now, celebrate. You have just completed Manamon 2, from start to finish!
So many challenges have come up, and so many events have occurred. And yet, look where we are!
The dialogue at the end is quite hilarious, if I must say so myself.
After that, you will get the theme song voiced by Aaron Baker, which is Requiem. Sadly, you cannot skip it the first time you finish, so just sit back and listen.
After the song, you will get the credits and acknowledgements. Again, you can't skip these.
Finally, you will be shown your statistics.

_Back in Lellapol Village
I honestly like that Aaron makes you spawn at where your journey all began, and not just leave you hanging in the staidium. It definitely brings closure to the game.
That being said, I really hope you enjoyed this game, and it was an honor putting time aside to write this guide for those who required assistance.
However, it's not quite over.
There is still quite a lot you can do, even after you complete the game. There are places which, although seem to be normal, there is something there that you probably never saw.
This is where my friend Kalahami comes in.
It's his turn to help you guys, and he will be writing about the post-game.
I'll be editting and correcting like he editted and corrected me, so we're essentialy swapping roles.
If you need any further assistance, you can find me on Mastodon (tunmi13@mastodon.social), X (@tunmi13prod), Discord (tunmi13#1880) or by e-mail (tunmi12@mail.com).
And with that, I'm out!
See you guys later!

*Post Game: It All Starts Here
Author: tunmi13
So after some considerations, not all sections will be written by Kalahami. Below each section, the author will be placed below the title.

Congratulations!
You've completed Manamon 2, or are returning to a completed Manamon 2 save. Either way, this section will help you get the most out of Manamon 2 after the completion of the game.
What exactly can you do after completion?
Well, as I mentioned at the end of the main guide, there are some places you can now get to, or items you can now interact with, that you probably were not able to interact with before, or might have slipped your mind.
First, let's start with places.

*The Real Master
Author: tunmi13
Upon defeating the master stadium, you can go fight the original manamon master, Rubin. As you may recall, Rubin was the master Norman fought before his Dragomier did  fatal damage to Norman.
Copter to the Master Stadium, and head east around the building. You will hear a transition to the north, so walk through.

_Master's Heights
Manamon Available: Undocumented (Coming Soon)
Just keep walking north, you'll reach him eventually. A long meaningful conversation occurs between the two of you, then it's battle time!

@Manamon Master Rubin
Golavath is level 100 with a Firebrand equipped
Bamboustica is level 100 with a Jungle Javelin equipped
Kaboerain is level 100 with an Ocean Rock equipped
Shadyena is level 100 with a Megaphone equipped
Dragomier is level 100 with a Secondary Scale Uniform equipped
Javoltrik is level 100 with a Yellow Star equipped
A lot of these manamon and this equipment should be self-explanatory by now, so I won't cover anything major. Just watch out for the big bad dragon and the three starters.
You get tons of gold for this as well.
Once you have battled him, interacting with him yields nothing, not even a single word. That being said, we're done hanging out with him.

In this area, you can train up your manamon, or catch new ones. The water-like area to the north doesn't actually contain any water or ice type manamon, which is a bit sad. But you can always get those in various other spots.
When you are done, just head back south.

*Stadiums Rebattles
Author: tunmi13
Yes, you can now rebattle all the prior stadium leaders. this time, however, they possess much stronger manamon, which are in the early to late 90s. They also have   much rarer/costly equipment on their manamon, so they will be  harder to beat. make sure your manamon are   up there, (100 is the best, and the max level that manamon are able to go).

For help on how to get through the stadiums, read the main part of the guide. Here are the battles, from 1 to 7.

@@Stadium Leader Skeeter
Centiplex is level 91 with a Hundred Arm Coat equipped
Daggeetle is level 95 with a Long Dagger equipped
Rumblebee is level 93 with a Root Point equipped
Symphonid is level 93 with a Megaphone equipped
Sylphantom is level 94 with a Hive Buster equipped
Trumer is level 95 with an Angel Pendant equipped
A "Requiem" is, was, let's not go there. Point is, it's over.

@@Stadium Leader Brooklynne
Fauntozaur is level 95 with an Angel Pendant equipped
Submenno is level 94 with a Gold Shield equipped
Frorgeril is level 95 with a Broomstick equipped
Tarboo is level 96 with a Soul Saber equipped
Angillish is level 96 with a Vapor Garment equipped
Wavotamus is level 93 with a Resister Advance equipped

Wow, she just can't get a hold of herself. Let's battle before she... nevermind, that's beyond this guide.
@@Stadium Leader Roseanne
Hydrake is level 96 with a Long Wand equipped
Banyardan is level 95 with an Ultra Snow Shield equipped
Fowlusion is level 95 with a Willow Hammer equipped
Slothegor is level 97 with the  Irod Pendant equipped
Treezon is level 97 with the Chrono Core equipped
Thornita is level 96 with a Berserk Club equipped
Good to know they are annoying you too. They're annoying me, at least.

A re rematch. Love it.
@@Stadium Leader Adrik
Sirenea is level 96 with a Speed Anklet V2.0 equipped
Shadyena is level 98 with a Tank Immunity Bracelet equipped
Dussoket is level 97 with a Yellow Star equipped
Werewolfsyre is level 97 with the  Irod Pendant equipped
Ninjarkin is level 96 with a Katana equipped
Duskond is level 96 with the Kumori Cloak equipped

Congratulations on your engagement"! Let's celebrate it with a battle with the  manamon master.
@@Stadium Leader Tatsuo
Dragomier is level 98 with a Firebrand equipped
Glimerodo is level 97 with a Rearmband equipped
Volanteral is level 98 with a Stone Club equipped
Dragomier is level 98  with a Secondary Scale Uniform equipped
Volanteral is level 98 with a Dragon Guard equipped
Dramegon is level 97 with a Fairy Suit V2.0 equipped
Watch out for the Dragomiers, they're quite deadly.
I'm happy to say that my Glimerodo's Final Dragon attack dealt 831 damage to  the second Dragomier, keeping in mind in all my years of playing Manamon  2, I have never had that happen.

There was, in fact, a stadium with two stadium leaders in Manamon 1. About the put in a word part though... Hmm. If only. Aaron, quest possibility here? Nudge nudge?
@@Stadium Leader Bram
Fiendour is level 98 with a Headstone Amulet equipped
Jagzeom is level 98 with an Unknown Bone equipped
Skeletone is level 98 with a Magnet Jacket equipped
Bombusect is level 98 with the Requiem Hourglass equipped
Maustodon is level 98 with a fire Suit V2.0 equipped
Dormanoid is level 100 with the Sword of the Undead equipped (Careful, this one can unshackle, becoming an Unbound Dormanoid)

And last, but not least... Ambition roars like a brutal fire kills. I kill not for pleasure, but god save the Dyeur Hills.
@@Stadium Leader Blaze
Tylavile is level 99 with a Firebrand equipped
Escargma is level 99 with an Element Guard equipped
Ursinearator is level 99 with a Burner Charm equipped
Araknite is level 99 with a Resistor Advanced equipped
Lantlare is level 99 with a Haunted Hat equipped
Blaizond is level 99 with a Torch Hammer equipped
Yeah that prank was pretty sudden. :D

And we're done with the battles! This will now unlock the ability to fight the Master Stadium in the Upgraded mode.
I will not go into detail about what is contained within the Upgraded mode, however if people wish for me to write about it I will.
It's basically just way higher level manamon, and the same master you fought. From hereon out, the master you fought will always be the one you go up against. This applies to both modes.

*Back to the Past: A Reanimated Manamon Master
Author: tunmi13
So what is it like, fighting Andromeda Masterson, or Princess Andromeda if we're referring to Requia?
Well, there's only one way to find out, by seeing her, in her bedroom!
How many readers' minds just went in the gutter?
Remember, you cannot go to the Requiem Gallery anymore to get to Requia. You have to go to Corona's time machine in Tradale Village.
Let's delve into a bit of time logic here, just for fun. I've had GPT-4 explain this better than I could, it took my text and made it a lot cleaner.
The supercomputer created Requia, a dimension Oghma himself drew into being, then powered with an Artisoul and a ruby. Oghma was real, but when Requia collapsed and rewound, he was deleted. You nearly suffered the same fate, if not for Rena and her father pulling you free.
Because of that, the time machine doesn't really bring Oghma back. It doesn't restore him as he truly was. What returns is only a ghostly version, more program than person. Theoretically, Oghma could emerge from the computer, but if he did, he'd likely manifest as something twisted, like a hyper. That's another rabbit hole we won't dive into.
But here's something you should be aware of: you still exist. Not only here, but also there. A version of you remains within that dimension. We don't know exactly where you are at the moment the time machine deposits you, only that it is around the time you journey to the edge of the world. But you're there.
That means if you tried to meddle (for instance, rebattling Oghma, retriggering the Last Resort Protocol, or anything along those lines), you'd risk a paradox, and things would get very messy.
Thankfully, Aaron prevents that from happening, and if you try to do something that may alter what has already happened, you will be denied access.
The only reason you're able to face Andromeda is because, by that point, your other self had already gone off to confront Oghma. That absence leaves an opening for you. Since your virtual self is the one who receives assistance later, she either can't recall what truly happened, or she does remember, but says nothing, since speaking of it could unravel into another paradox. The game never makes that clear, and that's probably for the best.
Lastly. You had already promised that you would end things, and you did. Letting her know it was over didn't risk breaking anything, because by then, she was already gone. The  computer had shut down (well actually it went boom), her deletion was complete, and there was nothing left to unravel. In a way, those final words weren't a disruption of the timeline, but a confirmation of it.
Okay, that's enough of all that. Where wer we?
Ah yes, the battle!
Andromeda's quarters are located in Requiem Castle.
On the hill, copter to Requia. If you did not visit Requia before the complete destruction, simply head all the way south on the hill until you bump the wall, and you will find it in the eastern portion if you travel east. Take the transition south.

_Requia
If you did not use the pocket copter:
Literally just head all the way south until you bump the southern wall. You will then have to go east, but watch out for the walls to the east sticking out. You can avoid them by going north until they vanish, and then east.
Once you reach a wall to the east that is solid (no twists, turns, or sudden disappearances), head all the way north until you reach a wall, then follow it west. The castle transition will come up to the north, so go ahead and walk through.
If you did use the pocket copter:
Veer around the building, and then go to the northern wall. Follow it east or west (depends on which side you took) and the transition will be right in front of you.

_Requiem Castle
While we are here, we can also visit the places leading up to Andromeda's bedroom. It's better than not mentioning anything at all.
Just head north through the next transition.

To the left will be an Oghma statue. Feel free to look at it, or don't.
Spread out in this area, in fact a lot of the areas in the castle, are several  tamers. Get too close, and they will notice you. But if you avoid them, they shouldn't be much of a bother.
There is a chest somewhere in the middle of this space, containing 2 power potions.
Head north through another transition, and we'll be in a hallway.

Head west in this hallway. A transition will open up to the south, so head through.

This is a bathroom with several stalls on both sides.
In one of the left stalls (starting from the northern wall, can't remember if it's the first or second) is 250 gold.
Heading all the way south, you will find two sinks. The sink near the eastern wall holds a Treasure Chest Key. Who knows why it's there.
There may be some hidden items here, but I haven't found them yet, and have not heard of any additional ones in this particular area. So let's head back north.

When you exit, head to the western wall, then follow it north. It'll open up. Ignore it, and take a few more steps north.
You will eventually have a straight shot west, so head west to reach another transition. Let's go through.

This appears to be a library of some sorts, but it's just a deduction based on how many bookshelves are here.
Heading north, you will find a bookshelf. To the right of it will be a tamer / guard, whichever you want to call them. They won't engage you unless you engage them.
Follow this bookshelf west, and it'll end, giving you a chance to go to the northern wall. Go up against it, and you'll find yourself sandwiched between two bookshelves. The one on your left contains a giganet upon interaction. Makes sense considering the type of books it offers.
Follow the next few bookshelfs in a similar fashion, and you'll hear an item between two shelves. It's a Rare Jewel.
A few more bookshelves west, you will hear an item behind you. It's a Speedy Potion.
There's nothing else here, so head back east and through the transition.

Head north to the northern wall, and follow it east. When it ends, go north.
You will notice that the wall to the west will end abruptly. Start heading west so that the wall is behind you, and you will quickly find another wall to your west. Follow it north.
Once you reach the next northern wall, follow it east. You will quickly find a transition to the north. This leads to the throne room. She's not actually here, but there's something  interesting  to do in here.

Upon entry, head all the way east, then follow the eastern wall north. Don't worry, there's no trigger or anything here, since you already did that whole schpiel a long time ago.
Eventually, the eastern wall will open up. Standing within this little alcove, thinking he can get away with what he's doing, is a guard. Save before you interact with him.
He's asking if you care for a wager. Upon clicking yes, you have two options. Heads, or tails.
If you select one, he'll flip a coin. If you chose what the coin lands on, he'll give you 500 gold. But he gets caught red-handed, then tries to blame you for it. As if you were the one causing mischief, he shouldn't be talking.
The rest of these guards / NPCS are just admirers or suspicious of you in general. Otherwise, there's nothing else here, so let's head out. Just head back south, and through the transition.

Alright, it's time to do what we came here for.
Follow the northern wall east, until you reach the eastern wall. Follow it south, until a gap opens up to the east. You will hear stairs.
Take these stairs up, and you'll arrive at  the destination.

From the stairs, head south until you are able to go west, then head in that direction. You'll hear her. Save, and interact with her.
You'll have a long, meaningful conversation, and then it's showtime!
I love the track  used for this battle.

@Manamon Tamer Andromeda
Vishthaugh is level 70 with a Gold Shield equipped
Glimerodo is level 70 with a Yellow Star equipped
Schemu is level 70 with a Dark Blade equipped
Rescumo is level 70 with the Requiem Hourglass equipped
Blade Dodderator is level 70 with a Jungle Javelin equipped
Erroir is level 70 with a Broomstick equipped
Well fought, Andromeda. Well fought.

One last meaningful interaction. She almost hands you her Life Crystal, but halt! Bad idea!
She does, however, give you something nice. Something that does not threaten the balance of the world. It's Requiem Dust. We will be using that pretty soon.
Alright, we are done here. At least, in Andromeda's bedroom. But stay down here, we're not done yet! make your way out of the castle though.

*Back to the Past: "I see a little silhouetto of a man"
Author: tunmi13
Do you believe in ghosts?
I personally don't know whether my answer is yes, or no. Sort of in the middle I suppose. However, there is a ghost we can get down here.
Remember how I said to not leave?
Well, if you did, time to go back. Or, if you just never came here and are now reading this section, head through the time machine in Tradale Village, through the catacombs (using the helpful teleporter) and back onto the hill.
Notice that if you go north, there is a section of water we've never crossed. Well, we're crossing it now.
Get into the water, and travel north until you are able to get out. Once you  are out, head to the northern wall, then follow it east.
You will slip between two walls, then the  northern wall will open up, so head north.
When you reach the next wall to the north, follow it east. It'll open up to a transition. Head through it.

_Dyaz Royaum Ruins
Be careful, there is a manamon here among the rest called Dyaz Heir. It isn't as lethal as the actual Master Dyaz, and does not have the concerning moves, but it's still good to be on guard.
From the transition, head east until you reach the eastern wall. Follow it east, and it will eventually open up, and you'll find yourself on debris.
Keep heading east (it's quite the walk) before hitting the next eastern wall. Follow it north, until you reach a wall to the north.
Follow the northern wall west. it zigzags, so you'll have to go west, north, west, north.
Eventually it'll open up, and when you head north, ignore the area to the east, just keep going north.
When you reach the northern wall, back up a few paces so you can go west, then head west.
You will eventually encounter a chest.
Assuming you haven't used the Treasure Chest key you got from the sink in Requiem Castle, or you have keys on hand, unlock this chest with the key. You will find a Chrono Core. You've already seen a person or two use this accessory.

$Chrono Core
This thing only really gives you 50 health points when you knock your opponent out. Other than that, it has no boosts or takeaways. You can put this on whatever you deem appropriate.

BOOM!
Hey! A bomb in a chest! It wasn't a suitcase. Well, looks like you won't be seeing any remnants of that, ever.
Now head back east, all the way until you reach the eastern wall, ignoring the gaps in the northern wall as they present themselves. Once you reach the eastern wall, follow it south, but be careful!
To your immediate left will be a pit. Fall into it, and let's explore what lies at the bottom.

To your left, you will hear a post. This will take you back up.
We can do two things here.
Head west until you reach the western wall. There is a gap here, but the post is blocking it.
Instead, we need to head north just a little ways, then when you can go west, do so.
A gap will open up to the south, so take it south.
The post is now to our right, but there is an item to our left. Head to the southern wall, then go west to claim it. it's a Full Revive.
Now head back north, but keep going north until you hit the wall. Follow it east, and you will eventually find yourself sandwiched between two walls.
Eeventually, you will hear the all too familiar growl of a Lonar. But this isn't just any Lonar. This is the ghost version.
It looks scared, so let's take it and give it a new home, whether that be on your team or in your transportal.
Now head back west, and once you hit the western wall, follow it south.
When you reach the southern wall, head east until there is a gap, then take it south. A gap will open up in the eastern wall, and this is on the left side of the post. We can still use it though, the side you are on does not matter. Climb up, and we will return to the area near the pit.

Now, to get out of here. I personally find it easier to just copter out to a location (Requia comes to mind) and then return to the hill that way.

*Back to the Past: Get Over Here!
Author: tunmi13
Remember how I said to not leave?
Well, if you did, time to go back. Or, if you just never came here and are now reading this section, head through the time machine in Tradale Village, through the catacombs (using the helpful teleporter) and back onto the hill.
Remember the edge of the world? Well, we're going there again. Sorry, I don't like it either, but it's the only way to do this.
Make sure you have that Requiem dust on hand. If you don't, go battle Andromeda (see above).
Copter to the end of the Frozen Hinderland.
From the stairs, head north. I recommend squaring off with the stairs.
When you reach the northern wall, notice there are two gaps. One on the left, and one on the right. Take the one on the left north.
When you reach the next northern wall, take the gap that is against the western wall north.
There will be a few gaps in the eastern wall. Take the gap that is closest to the northern wall.
When you reach the next eastern wall, head all the way south, then take that gap east. Be careful, as there are several identical gaps here.
At the next eastern wall, head north until you reach the northern wall, then take a step or two west.
It's a straight shot from here, so head north, and here we go again.

_Edge of the World
Head all the way north until you reach the cliff. 
Open your inventory, go to the Other category, and use the dust.
Oooops? We've done it again! Hathorilian is pissed, and... dimension breach error.

_Abandoned Shrine
You will notice a teleporter here, don't take it just yet. Instead, head for the imposing transition before you.
Upon entry, head north. You will run into a wall, so just sidestep east a little, and continue north.
When the wall opens up to the west, take it west until you reach the western wall.
There are two paths from here. South, and north.
To the south is a manalith healing unit. And directly behind it, is 1   single gold coin.
I'm not joking, see for yourself! LOL
To the north is where we want to go. So head north until you reach the northern wall, then follow it east.
When it ends, head north until you reach the next wall, then follow that one east as well.
When you reach the next eastern wall, take a few steps south, and you will hear a transition to the east, against the northern wall. Let's go through.

This is an area just like the one we went through earlier in the guide. You are floating, and you need to get through the area by taking steps in a certain fashion. If you step on the wrong tile, you'll fall, and be sent back to the southern wall.
It is an exact replica it seems, at least mine is. So I have copied and pasted the instructions.
Head all the way to the western wall.
Take 4 steps forward.
1 step right.
2 steps forward.
1 step left.
12 steps forward.
You will notice a gap to the west, assuming your back is pressed to the southern wall.
5 steps left.
1 step forward.
1 step left.
All the way forward until you hit the northern wall.
1 step right.
Forward, up the stairs.

_Abandoned Shrine F2
This is just like in the shrine from Quennsette. Head west for a really long time.
You discover that this is the nexus through which Hathorilian and the hyper forms escaped from Requiem, or at least one of them.
And Hathorilian is aware that you have come to check out said nexus.
Hathorilian then does this weird transformation like thing, and it splits itself into 4 identical copies.
here we go again!

@@4 Hathorilians
Level: 60
Same concept here with the level 30 Hathorilian, just 4 of them this time. The  copies  will place down boxes. Make sure to change up which box you hit each time. It'll take some memorization, especially if they decide to put down boxes on the same turn, thus resulting in 2 to 8 boxes in total.
Have fun!

Well, now there's just one Hathorilian. And guess what? You can actually catch this one! It's level 70, so you'll have to widdle its health down quite a bit before you can snag it, but it's yours for the taking!
Once you defeat it or capture it, you'll automatically be teleported back to the edge of the world's clifftop.
Alright, that's it here. Don't bother trying to go and disconnect Artisoul, make the world unstable, etc. Aaron put a barrier there that says it's not a good idea.

*Back to the Past: You're Supposed to be Dead
Author: tunmi13
Remember Barren Byron? Well, let's just say he's still alive.
Which to me, makes no sense, because you'd think that your virtual self would have dealt with him already.
To rebattle him, head to the Frozen Hinderland, then south back into the Barren Underground. He's standing there, waiting for you.
